## Help
```elm
Nmap 7.91 ( https://nmap.org )
Usage: nmap [Scan Type(s)] [Options] {target specification}
TARGET SPECIFICATION:
  Can pass hostnames, IP addresses, networks, etc.
  Ex: scanme.nmap.org, microsoft.com/24, 192.168.0.1; 10.0.0-255.1-254
  -iL <inputfilename>: Input from list of hosts/networks
  -iR <num hosts>: Choose random targets
  --exclude <host1[,host2][,host3],...>: Exclude hosts/networks
  --excludefile <exclude_file>: Exclude list from file
HOST DISCOVERY:
  -sL: List Scan - simply list targets to scan
  -sn: Ping Scan - disable port scan
  -Pn: Treat all hosts as online -- skip host discovery
  -PS/PA/PU/PY[portlist]: TCP SYN/ACK, UDP or SCTP discovery to given ports
  -PE/PP/PM: ICMP echo, timestamp, and netmask request discovery probes
  -PO[protocol list]: IP Protocol Ping
  -n/-R: Never do DNS resolution/Always resolve [default: sometimes]
  --dns-servers <serv1[,serv2],...>: Specify custom DNS servers
  --system-dns: Use OS's DNS resolver
  --traceroute: Trace hop path to each host
SCAN TECHNIQUES:
  -sS/sT/sA/sW/sM: TCP SYN/Connect()/ACK/Window/Maimon scans
  -sU: UDP Scan
  -sN/sF/sX: TCP Null, FIN, and Xmas scans
  --scanflags <flags>: Customize TCP scan flags
  -sI <zombie host[:probeport]>: Idle scan
  -sY/sZ: SCTP INIT/COOKIE-ECHO scans
  -sO: IP protocol scan
  -b <FTP relay host>: FTP bounce scan
PORT SPECIFICATION AND SCAN ORDER:
  -p <port ranges>: Only scan specified ports
    Ex: -p22; -p1-65535; -p U:53,111,137,T:21-25,80,139,8080,S:9
  --exclude-ports <port ranges>: Exclude the specified ports from scanning
  -F: Fast mode - Scan fewer ports than the default scan
  -r: Scan ports consecutively - don't randomize
  --top-ports <number>: Scan <number> most common ports
  --port-ratio <ratio>: Scan ports more common than <ratio>
SERVICE/VERSION DETECTION:
  -sV: Probe open ports to determine service/version info
  --version-intensity <level>: Set from 0 (light) to 9 (try all probes)
  --version-light: Limit to most likely probes (intensity 2)
  --version-all: Try every single probe (intensity 9)
  --version-trace: Show detailed version scan activity (for debugging)
SCRIPT SCAN:
  -sC: equivalent to --script=default
  --script=<Lua scripts>: <Lua scripts> is a comma separated list of
           directories, script-files or script-categories
  --script-args=<n1=v1,[n2=v2,...]>: provide arguments to scripts
  --script-args-file=filename: provide NSE script args in a file
  --script-trace: Show all data sent and received
  --script-updatedb: Update the script database.
  --script-help=<Lua scripts>: Show help about scripts.
           <Lua scripts> is a comma-separated list of script-files or
           script-categories.
OS DETECTION:
  -O: Enable OS detection
  --osscan-limit: Limit OS detection to promising targets
  --osscan-guess: Guess OS more aggressively
TIMING AND PERFORMANCE:
  Options which take <time> are in seconds, or append 'ms' (milliseconds),
  's' (seconds), 'm' (minutes), or 'h' (hours) to the value (e.g. 30m).
  -T<0-5>: Set timing template (higher is faster)
  --min-hostgroup/max-hostgroup <size>: Parallel host scan group sizes
  --min-parallelism/max-parallelism <numprobes>: Probe parallelization
  --min-rtt-timeout/max-rtt-timeout/initial-rtt-timeout <time>: Specifies
      probe round trip time.
  --max-retries <tries>: Caps number of port scan probe retransmissions.
  --host-timeout <time>: Give up on target after this long
  --scan-delay/--max-scan-delay <time>: Adjust delay between probes
  --min-rate <number>: Send packets no slower than <number> per second
  --max-rate <number>: Send packets no faster than <number> per second
FIREWALL/IDS EVASION AND SPOOFING:
  -f; --mtu <val>: fragment packets (optionally w/given MTU)
  -D <decoy1,decoy2[,ME],...>: Cloak a scan with decoys
  -S <IP_Address>: Spoof source address
  -e <iface>: Use specified interface
  -g/--source-port <portnum>: Use given port number
  --proxies <url1,[url2],...>: Relay connections through HTTP/SOCKS4 proxies
  --data <hex string>: Append a custom payload to sent packets
  --data-string <string>: Append a custom ASCII string to sent packets
  --data-length <num>: Append random data to sent packets
  --ip-options <options>: Send packets with specified ip options
  --ttl <val>: Set IP time-to-live field
  --spoof-mac <mac address/prefix/vendor name>: Spoof your MAC address
  --badsum: Send packets with a bogus TCP/UDP/SCTP checksum
OUTPUT:
  -oN/-oX/-oS/-oG <file>: Output scan in normal, XML, s|<rIpt kIddi3,
     and Grepable format, respectively, to the given filename.
  -oA <basename>: Output in the three major formats at once
  -v: Increase verbosity level (use -vv or more for greater effect)
  -d: Increase debugging level (use -dd or more for greater effect)
  --reason: Display the reason a port is in a particular state
  --open: Only show open (or possibly open) ports
  --packet-trace: Show all packets sent and received
  --iflist: Print host interfaces and routes (for debugging)
  --append-output: Append to rather than clobber specified output files
  --resume <filename>: Resume an aborted scan
  --stylesheet <path/URL>: XSL stylesheet to transform XML output to HTML
  --webxml: Reference stylesheet from Nmap.Org for more portable XML
  --no-stylesheet: Prevent associating of XSL stylesheet w/XML output
MISC:
  -6: Enable IPv6 scanning
  -A: Enable OS detection, version detection, script scanning, and traceroute
  --datadir <dirname>: Specify custom Nmap data file location
  --send-eth/--send-ip: Send using raw ethernet frames or IP packets
  --privileged: Assume that the user is fully privileged
  --unprivileged: Assume the user lacks raw socket privileges
  -V: Print version number
  -h: Print this help summary page.
EXAMPLES:
  nmap -v -A scanme.nmap.org
  nmap -v -sn 192.168.0.0/16 10.0.0.0/8
  nmap -v -iR 10000 -Pn -p 80
SEE THE MAN PAGE (https://nmap.org/book/man.html) FOR MORE OPTIONS AND EXAMPLES
```

***
***
# NAME 

 nmap − Network exploration tool and security / port scanner 

# SYNOPSIS 

 nmap [ Scan Type ...] [ Options ]{ targetspecification } 

# DESCRIPTION 

 Nmap (“Network Mapper”) is an open source tool for network exploration and security auditing. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, although it works fine against single hosts. Nmap uses rawIP packets in novelways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) theyare running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. While Nmap is commonly used for security audits, manysystems and network administrators find it useful for routine tasks such as network inventory,managing service upgrade schedules, and monitoring host or service uptime. The output from Nmap is a list of scanned targets, with supplemental information on each depending on the options used. Key among that information is the “interesting ports table”. That table lists the port number and protocol, service name, and state. The state is either open, filtered, closed, or unfiltered. Open means that an application on the target machine is listening for connections/packets on that port. Filtered means that a firewall, filter,orother network obstacle is blocking the port so that Nmap cannot tell whether it is open or closed. Closed ports have noapplication listening on them, though theycould open up at anytime. Ports are classified as unfiltered when theyare responsive toNmap's probes, but Nmap cannot determine whether theyare open or closed. Nmap reports the state combinations open|filtered and closed|filtered when it cannot determine which of the twostates describe a port. The port table may also include software version details when version detection has been requested. When an IP protocol scan is requested ( −sO ), Nmap provides information on supported IP protocols rather than listening ports. In addition to the interesting ports table, Nmap can provide further information on targets, including reverse DNS names, operating system guesses, device types, and MACaddresses. Atypical Nmap scan is shown in Example 1. The only Nmap arguments used in this example are −A ,to enable OS and version detection, script scanning, and traceroute; −T4 for faster execution; and then the hostname. Example 1. A representative Nmap scan 

 # nmap −A −T4 scanme.nmap.org 

 Nmap scan report for scanme.nmap.org(74.207.244.221) Host is up (0.029s latency). rDNS record for 74.207.244.221: li86−221.members.linode.com Not shown: 995 closed ports PORTSTATE SERVICE VERSION 22/tcp open ssh OpenSSH5.3p1 Debian 3ubuntu7 (protocol 2.0) |ssh−hostkey:1024 8d:60:f1:7c:ca:b7:3d:0a:d6:67:54:9d:69:d9:b9:dd (DSA) |_2048 79:f8:09:ac:d4:e2:32:42:10:49:d3:bd:20:82:85:ec (RSA) 80/tcp open http Apachehttpd 2.2.14 ((Ubuntu)) |_http−title: Go ahead and ScanMe! 646/tcp filteredldp 1720/tcp filtered H.323/Q.931 9929/tcp open nping−echo Npingecho Device type: general purpose Running: Linux 2.6.X OS CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel:2.6.39 OS details: Linux 2.6.39 Network Distance: 11 hops Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:kernel 

---

 TRACEROUTE (using port 53/tcp) HOP RTT ADDRESS [Cut first 10 hops for brevity] 11 17.65ms li86−221.members.linode.com (74.207.244.221) 

 Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 14.40 seconds The newest version of Nmap can be obtained from https://nmap.org .The newest version of this man page is available at https://nmap.org/book/man.html .Itisalso included as a chapter of Nmap Network Scanning: The Official Nmap Project Guide to Network Discovery and Security Scanning (see https://nmap.org/book/ ). 

# OPTIONS SUMMARY 

 This options summary is printed when Nmap is run with no arguments, and the latest version is always available at https://svn.nmap.org/nmap/docs/nmap.usage.txt .Ithelps people remember the most common options, but is no substitute for the in−depth documentation in the rest of this manual. Some obscure options aren't evenincluded here. 

 Nmap 7.90 ( https://nmap.org) Usage: nmap [Scan Type(s)] [Options] {target specification} TARGET SPECIFICATION: Can pass hostnames, IP addresses, networks, etc. Ex: scanme.nmap.org, microsoft.com/24, 192.168.0.1; 10.0.0−255.1−254 −iL <inputfilename>: Input from list of hosts/networks −iR <num hosts>: Choose random targets −−exclude <host1[,host2][,host3],...>: Exclude hosts/networks −−excludefile <exclude_file>: Exclude list from file HOST DISCOVERY: −sL: List Scan − simply list targets to scan −sn: Ping Scan − disable port scan −Pn: Treat all hosts as online −− skip host discovery −PS/PA/PU/PY[portlist]: TCP SYN/ACK, UDP or SCTP discovery to givenports −PE/PP/PM: ICMP echo, timestamp, and netmask request discovery probes −PO[protocol list]: IP Protocol Ping −n/−R: NeverdoDNS resolution/Always resolve[default: sometimes] −−dns−servers <serv1[,serv2],...>: Specify custom DNS servers −−system−dns: Use OS's DNS resolver −−traceroute: Trace hop path to each host SCAN TECHNIQUES: −sS/sT/sA/sW/sM: TCP SYN/Connect()/ACK/Window/Maimon scans −sU: UDP Scan −sN/sF/sX: TCP Null, FIN, and Xmas scans −−scanflags <flags>: Customize TCP scan flags −sI <zombie host[:probeport]>: Idle scan −sY/sZ: SCTP INIT/COOKIE−ECHO scans −sO: IP protocol scan −b <FTP relay host>: FTP bounce scan PORTSPECIFICATION AND SCAN ORDER: −p <port ranges>: Only scan specified ports Ex: −p22; −p1−65535; −p U:53,111,137,T:21−25,80,139,8080,S:9 −−exclude−ports <port ranges>: Exclude the specified ports from scanning −F: Fast mode − Scan fewer ports than the default scan −r: Scan ports consecutively − don't randomize −−top−ports <number>: Scan <number> most common ports −−port−ratio <ratio>: Scan ports more common than <ratio> SERVICE/VERSION DETECTION: 

---

−sV:Probe open ports to determine service/version info −−version−intensity <level>: Set from 0 (light) to 9 (try all probes) −−version−light: Limit to most likely probes (intensity 2) −−version−all: Try every single probe (intensity 9) −−version−trace: Showdetailed version scan activity (for debugging) SCRIPT SCAN: −sC: equivalent to −−script=default −−script=<Lua scripts>: <Lua scripts> is a comma separated list of directories, script−files or script−categories −−script−args=<n1=v1,[n2=v2,...]>: provide arguments to scripts −−script−args−file=filename: provide NSE script args in a file −−script−trace: Showall data sent and received −−script−updatedb: Update the script database. −−script−help=<Lua scripts>: Showhelp about scripts. <Lua scripts> is a comma−separated list of script−files or script−categories. OS DETECTION: −O: Enable OS detection −−osscan−limit: Limit OS detection to promising targets −−osscan−guess: Guess OS more aggressively TIMING AND PERFORMANCE: Options which take<time> are in seconds, or append 'ms' (milliseconds), 's' (seconds), 'm' (minutes), or 'h' (hours) to the value (e.g. 30m). −T<0−5>: Set timing template (higher is faster) −−min−hostgroup/max−hostgroup <size>: Parallel host scan group sizes −−min−parallelism/max−parallelism <numprobes>: Probe parallelization −−min−rtt−timeout/max−rtt−timeout/initial−rtt−timeout <time>: Specifies probe round trip time. −−max−retries <tries>: Caps number of port scan probe retransmissions. −−host−timeout <time>: Give upontarget after this long −−scan−delay/−−max−scan−delay <time>: Adjust delay between probes −−min−rate <number>: Send packets no slower than <number> per second −−max−rate <number>: Send packets no faster than <number> per second FIREWALL/IDS EVASION AND SPOOFING: −f; −−mtu <val>: fragment packets (optionally w/givenMTU) −D <decoy1,decoy2[,ME],...>: Cloak a scan with decoys −S <IP_Address>: Spoof source address −e <iface>: Use specified interface −g/−−source−port <portnum>: Use givenport number −−proxies <url1,[url2],...>: Relay connections through HTTP/SOCKS4 proxies −−data <hexstring>: Append a custom payload to sent packets −−data−string <string>: Append a custom ASCII string to sent packets −−data−length <num>: Append random data to sent packets −−ip−options <options>: Send packets with specified ip options −−ttl <val>: Set IP time−to−live field −−spoof−mac <mac address/prefix/vendor name>: Spoof your MACaddress −−badsum: Send packets with a bogus TCP/UDP/SCTP checksum OUTPUT: −oN/−oX/−oS/−oG <file>: Output scan in normal, XML, s|<rIpt kIddi3, and Grepable format, respectively,tothe givenfilename. −oA <basename>: Output in the three major formats at once −v: Increase verbosity level(use −vv or more for greater effect) −d: Increase debugging level(use −dd or more for greater effect) −−reason: Display the reason a port is in a particular state 

---

 −−open: Only showopen (or possibly open) ports −−packet−trace: Showall packets sent and received −−iflist: Print host interfaces and routes (for debugging) −−append−output: Append to rather than clobber specified output files −−resume <filename>: Resume an aborted scan −−stylesheet <path/URL>: XSL stylesheet to transform XML output to HTML −−webxml: Reference stylesheet from Nmap.Orgfor more portable XML −−no−stylesheet: Prevent associating of XSL stylesheet w/XML output MISC: −6: Enable IPv6 scanning −A: Enable OS detection, version detection, script scanning, and traceroute −−datadir <dirname>: Specify custom Nmap data file location −−send−eth/−−send−ip: Send using rawethernet frames or IP packets −−privileged: Assume that the user is fully privileged −−unprivileged: Assume the user lacks rawsocket privileges −V:Print version number −h: Print this help summary page. EXAMPLES: nmap −v −A scanme.nmap.org nmap −v −sn 192.168.0.0/16 10.0.0.0/8 nmap −v −iR 10000 −Pn −p 80 SEE THE MAN PAGE(https://nmap.org/book/man.html) FOR MORE OPTIONS AND EXAMPLES 

# TARGET SPECIFICATION 

 Everything on the Nmap command−line that isn't an option (or option argument) is treated as a target host specification. The simplest case is to specify a target IP address or hostname for scanning. When a hostname is givenasatarget, it is resolved via the Domain Name System (DNS) to determine the IP address to scan. If the name resolves to more than one IP address, only the first one will be scanned. To makeNmap scan all the resolved addresses instead of only the first one, use the −−resolve−all option. Sometimes you wish to scan a whole network of adjacent hosts. For this, Nmap supports CIDR−style addressing. You can append / numbits to an IP address or hostname and Nmap will scan every IP address for which the first numbits are the same as for the reference IP or hostname given. For example, 192.168.10.0/24 would scan the 256 hosts between 192.168.10.0 (binary: 11000000 10101000 00001010 00000000) and 192.168.10.255 (binary: 11000000 10101000 00001010 11111111), inclusive. 192.168.10.40/24 would scan exactly the same targets. Giventhat the host scanme.nmap.orgisatthe IP address 64.13.134.52, the specification scanme.nmap.org/16 would scan the 65,536 IP addresses between 64.13.0.0 and 64.13.255.255. The smallest allowed value is /0, which targets the whole Internet. The largest value for IPv4 is /32, which scans just the named host or IP address because all address bits are fixed. The largest value for IPv6 is /128, which does the same thing. CIDR notation is short but not always flexible enough. For example, you might want to scan 192.168.0.0/16 butskip anyIPs ending with .0 or .255 because theymay be used as subnet network and broadcast addresses. Nmap supports this through octet range addressing. Rather than specify a normal IP address, you can specify a comma−separated list of numbers or ranges for each octet. For example, 192.168.0−255.1−254 will skip all addresses in the range that end in .0 or .255, and 192.168.3−5,7.1 will scan the four addresses 192.168.3.1, 192.168.4.1, 192.168.5.1, and 192.168.7.1. Either side of a range may be omitted; the default values are 0 on the left and 255 on the right. Using − by itself is the same as 0−255, butremember to use 0− in the first octet so the target specification doesn't look likeacommand−line option. Ranges need not be limited to the final octets: the specifier 0−255.0−255.13.37 will perform an Internet−wide scan for all IP addresses ending in 13.37. This sort of broad sampling can be useful for Internet surveysand research. IPv6 addresses can be specified by their fully qualified IPv6 address or hostname or with CIDR notation for subnets. Octet ranges aren't yet supported for IPv6. IPv6 addresses with non−global scope need to have a zone ID suffix. On Unix systems, this is a percent 

---

 sign followed by an interface name; a complete address might be fe80::a8bb:ccff:fedd:eeff%eth0. On Windows, use an interface indexnumber in place of an interface name: fe80::a8bb:ccff:fedd:eeff%1. You can see a list of interface indexesbyrunning the command netsh.exe interface ipv6 showinterface. Nmap accepts multiple host specifications on the command line, and theydon't need to be the same type. The command nmap scanme.nmap.org192.168.0.0/8 10.0.0,1,3−7.− does what you would expect. While targets are usually specified on the command lines, the following options are also available to control target selection: −iL inputfilename (Input from list) Reads target specifications from inputfilename .Passing a huge list of hosts is often awkward on the command line, yet it is a common desire. For example, your DHCP server might export a list of 10,000 current leases that you wish to scan. Or maybe you want to scan all IP addresses except for those to locate hosts using unauthorized static IP addresses. Simply generate the list of hosts to scan and pass that filename to Nmap as an argument to the −iL option. Entries can be in anyofthe formats accepted by Nmap on the command line (IP address, hostname, CIDR, IPv6, or octet ranges). Each entry must be separated by one or more spaces, tabs, or newlines. You can specify a hyphen (−) as the filename if you want Nmap to read hosts from standard input rather than an actual file. 

 The input file may contain comments that start with # and extend to the end of the line. −iR num hosts (Choose random targets) ForInternet−wide surveysand other research, you may want to choose targets at random. The num hosts argument tells Nmap howmanyIPs to generate. Undesirable IPs such as those in certain private, multicast, or unallocated address ranges are automatically skipped. The argument 0 can be specified for a never−ending scan. Keep in mind that some network administrators bristle at unauthorized scans of their networks and may complain. Use this option at your own risk! If you find yourself really bored one rainyafternoon, try the command nmap −Pn −sS −p 80 −iR 0 −−open to locate random web servers for browsing. −−exclude host1 [, host2 [,...]] (Exclude hosts/networks) Specifies a comma−separated list of targets to be excluded from the scan eveniftheyare part of the overall network range you specify. The list you pass in uses normal Nmap syntax, so it can include hostnames, CIDR netblocks, octet ranges, etc. This can be useful when the network you wish to scan includes untouchable mission−critical servers, systems that are known to react adversely to port scans, or subnets administered by other people. −−excludefile exclude_file (Exclude list from file) This offers the same functionality as the −−exclude option, except that the excluded targets are provided in a newline−, space−, or tab−delimited exclude_file rather than on the command line. 

 The exclude file may contain comments that start with # and extend to the end of the line. 

# HOST DISCOVERY 

 One of the very first steps in anynetwork reconnaissance mission is to reduce a (sometimes huge) set of IP ranges into a list of active orinteresting hosts. Scanning every port of every single IP address is slowand usually unnecessary. Of course what makes a host interesting depends greatly on the scan purposes. Network administrators may only be interested in hosts running a certain service, while security auditors may care about every single device with an IP address. An administrator may be comfortable using just an ICMP ping to locate hosts on his internal network, while an external penetration tester may use a diverse set of dozens of probes in an attempt to evade firewall restrictions. Because host discovery needs are so diverse, Nmap offers a wide variety of options for customizing the techniques used. Host discovery is sometimes called ping scan, but it goes well beyond the simple ICMP echo request packets associated with the ubiquitous ping tool. Users can skip the discovery step entirely with a list scan ( −sL )orbydisabling host discovery ( −Pn ), or engage the network with arbitrary combinations of multi−port TCP SYN/ACK, UDP,SCTP INIT and ICMP probes. The goal of these probes is to solicit responses which demonstrate that an IP address is actually active (is being used by a host or 

---

network device). On manynetworks, only a small percentage of IP addresses are active atany giv entime. This is particularly common with private address space such as 10.0.0.0/8. That network has 16 million IPs, butIhav eseen it used by companies with less than a thousand machines. Host discovery can find those machines in a sparsely allocated sea of IP addresses. 

If no host discovery options are given, Nmap sends an ICMP echo request, a TCP SYN packet to port 443, aTCP ACK packet to port 80, and an ICMP timestamp request. (For IPv6, the ICMP timestamp request is omitted because it is not part of ICMPv6.) These defaults are equivalent to the **−PE −PS443 −PA80 −PP** options. The exceptions to this are the ARP (for IPv4) and Neighbor Discovery (for IPv6) scans which are used for anytargets on a local ethernet network. For unprivileged Unix shell users, the default probes are a SYN packet to ports 80 and 443 using the **connect** system call. This host discovery is often sufficient when scanning local networks, but a more comprehensive set of discovery probes is recommended for security auditing. 

The **−P*** options (which select ping types) can be combined. You can increase your odds of penetrating strict firewalls by sending manyprobe types using different TCP ports/flags and ICMP codes. Also note that ARP/Neighbor Discovery is done by default against targets on a local Ethernet network evenifyou specify other **−P*** options, because it is almost always faster and more effective. 

By default, Nmap does host discovery and then performs a port scan against each host it determines is online. This is true evenifyou specify non−default host discovery types such as UDP probes ( **−PU** ). Read about the **−sn** option to learn howtoperform only host discovery,oruse **−Pn** to skip host discovery and port scan all target addresses. The following options control host discovery: 

**−sL** (List Scan) The list scan is a degenerate form of host discovery that simply lists each host of the network(s) specified, without sending anypackets to the target hosts. By default, Nmap still does reverse−DNS resolution on the hosts to learn their names. It is often surprising howmuch useful information simple hostnames give out. For example, fw.chi is the name of one company's Chicago firewall. 

 Nmap also reports the total number of IP addresses at the end. The list scan is a good sanity check to ensure that you have proper IP addresses for your targets. If the hosts sport domain names you do not recognize, it is worth investigating further to prevent scanning the wrong company's network. 

 Since the idea is to simply print a list of target hosts, options for higher levelfunctionality such as port scanning, OS detection, or host discovery cannot be combined with this. If you wish to disable host discovery while still performing such higher levelfunctionality,read up on the −Pn (skip host discovery) option. 

**−sn** (No port scan) This option tells Nmap not to do a port scan after host discovery,and only print out the available hosts that responded to the host discovery probes. This is often known as a “ping scan”, but you can also request that traceroute and NSE host scripts be run. This is by default one step more intrusive than the list scan, and can often be used for the same purposes. It allows light reconnaissance of a target network without attracting much attention. Knowing howmanyhosts are up is more valuable to attackers than the list provided by list scan of every single IP and host name. 

 Systems administrators often find this option valuable as well. It can easily be used to count available machines on a network or monitor server availability. This is often called a ping sweep, and is more reliable than pinging the broadcast address because manyhosts do not reply to broadcast queries. 

 The default host discovery done with −sn consists of an ICMP echo request, TCP SYN to port 443, TCP ACK to port 80, and an ICMP timestamp request by default. When executed by an unprivileged user,only SYN packets are sent (using a connect call) to ports 80 and 443 on the target. When a privileged user tries to scan targets on a local ethernet network, ARP requests are used unless −−send−ip wasspecified. The −sn option can be combined with anyofthe discovery probe types (the −P* options) for greater flexibility. If anyofthose probe type and port number options are used, the 

---

 default probes are overridden. When strict firewalls are in place between the source host running Nmap and the target network, using those advanced techniques is recommended. Otherwise hosts could be missed when the firewall drops probes or their responses. 

 In previous releases of Nmap, −sn wasknown as −sP. 

**−Pn** (No ping) This option skips the host discovery stage altogether. Normally,Nmap uses this stage to determine active machines for heavier scanning and to gauge the speed of the network. By default, Nmap only performs heavy probing such as port scans, version detection, or OS detection against hosts that are found to be up. Disabling host discovery with **−Pn** causes Nmap to attempt the requested scanning functions against _every_ target IP address specified. So if a /16 sized network is specified on the command line, all 65,536 IP addresses are scanned. Proper host discovery is skipped as with the list scan, but instead of stopping and printing the target list, Nmap continues to perform requested functions as if each target IP is active.Default timing parameters are used, which may result in slower scans. Toskip host discovery _and_ port scan, while still allowing NSE to run, use the twooptions **−Pn −sn** together. 

 Formachines on a local ethernet network, ARP scanning will still be performed (unless −−disable−arp−ping or −−send−ip is specified) because Nmap needs MACaddresses to further scan target hosts. In previous versions of Nmap, −Pn was −P0 and −PN. 

**−PS** _port list_ (TCP SYN Ping) This option sends an empty TCP packet with the SYN flag set. The default destination port is 80 (configurable at compile time by changing _DEFAULT_TCP_PROBE_PORT_SPEC_ in nmap.h). Alternate ports can be specified as a parameter. The syntax is the same as for the **−p** except that port type specifiers likeT:are not allowed. Examples are **−PS22** and **−PS22−25,80,113,1050,35000** .Note that there can be no space between **−PS** and the port list. If multiple probes are specified theywill be sent in parallel. 

 The SYN flag suggests to the remote system that you are attempting to establish a connection. Normally the destination port will be closed, and a RST (reset) packet sent back. If the port happens to be open, the target will takethe second step of a TCP three−way−handshakebyresponding with a SYN/ACK TCP packet. The machine running Nmap then tears down the nascent connection by responding with a RST rather than sending an ACK packet which would complete the three−way−handshakeand establish a full connection. The RST packet is sent by the kernel of the machine running Nmap in response to the unexpected SYN/ACK, not by Nmap itself. 

 Nmap does not care whether the port is open or closed. Either the RST or SYN/ACK response discussed previously tell Nmap that the host is available and responsive. 

 On Unix boxes, only the privileged user root is generally able to send and receive raw TCP packets. Forunprivileged users, a workaround is automatically employed whereby the connect system call is initiated against each target port. This has the effect of sending a SYN packet to the target host, in an attempt to establish a connection. If connect returns with a quick success or an ECONNREFUSED failure, the underlying TCP stack must have receivedaSYN/ACK or RST and the host is marked available. If the connection attempt is left hanging until a timeout is reached, the host is marked as down. 

**−PA** _port list_ (TCP ACK Ping) The TCP ACK ping is quite similar to the just−discussed SYN ping. The difference, as you could likely guess, is that the TCP ACK flag is set instead of the SYN flag. Such an ACK packet purports to be acknowledging data overanestablished TCP connection, but no such connection exists. So remote hosts should always respond with a RST packet, disclosing their existence in the process. 

 The −PA option uses the same default port as the SYN probe (80) and can also takealist of 

---

 destination ports in the same format. If an unprivileged user tries this, the connect workaround discussed previously is used. This workaround is imperfect because connect is actually sending a SYN packet rather than an ACK. 

 The reason for offering both SYN and ACK ping probes is to maximize the chances of bypassing firewalls. Manyadministrators configure routers and other simple firewalls to block incoming SYN packets except for those destined for public services likethe companyweb site or mail server. This prevents other incoming connections to the organization, while allowing users to makeunobstructed outgoing connections to the Internet. This non−stateful approach takes up fewresources on the firewall/router and is widely supported by hardware and software filters. The Linux Netfilter/iptables firewall software offers the −−syn convenience option to implement this stateless approach. When stateless firewall rules such as this are in place, SYN ping probes ( −PS )are likely to be blocked when sent to closed target ports. In such cases, the ACK probe shines as it cuts right through these rules. 

 Another common type of firewall uses stateful rules that drop unexpected packets. This feature was initially found mostly on high−end firewalls, though it has become much more common overthe years. The Linux Netfilter/iptables system supports this through the −−state option, which categorizes packets based on connection state. A SYN probe is more likely to work against such a system, as unexpected ACK packets are generally recognized as bogus and dropped. A solution to this quandary is to send both SYN and ACK probes by specifying −PS and −PA. 

**−PU** _port list_ (UDP Ping) Another host discovery option is the UDP ping, which sends a UDP packet to the givenports. For most ports, the packet will be empty,though some use a protocol−specific payload that is more likely to elicit a response. The payload database is described at **https://nmap.org/book/nmap-payloads.html**. 

 Packet content can also be affected with the −−data , −−data−string ,and −−data−length options. 

 The port list takes the same format as with the previously discussed −PS and −PA options. If no ports are specified, the default is 40125. This default can be configured at compile−time by changing DEFAULT_UDP_PROBE_PORT_SPEC in nmap.h.Ahighly uncommon port is used by default because sending to open ports is often undesirable for this particular scan type. 

 Upon hitting a closed port on the target machine, the UDP probe should elicit an ICMP port unreachable packet in return. This signifies to Nmap that the machine is up and available. Manyother types of ICMP errors, such as host/network unreachables or TTL exceeded are indicative ofadownor unreachable host. A lack of response is also interpreted this way. If an open port is reached, most services simply ignore the empty packet and fail to return anyresponse. This is whythe default probe port is 40125, which is highly unlikely to be in use. A fewservices, such as the Character Generator (chargen) protocol, will respond to an empty UDP packet, and thus disclose to Nmap that the machine is available. 

 The primary advantage of this scan type is that it bypasses firewalls and filters that only screen TCP. Forexample, I once owned a Linksys BEFW11S4 wireless broadband router. The external interface of this device filtered all TCP ports by default, but UDP probes would still elicit port unreachable messages and thus give away the device. 

**−PY** _port list_ (SCTP INIT Ping) This option sends an SCTP packet containing a minimal INIT chunk. The default destination port is 80 (configurable at compile time by changing _DEFAULT_SCTP_PROBE_PORT_SPEC_ in nmap.h). Alternate ports can be specified as a parameter. The syntax is the same as for the **−p** except that port type specifiers likeS:are not allowed. Examples are **−PY22** and **−PY22,80,179,5060** .Note that there can be no space between **−PY** and the port list. If multiple probes are specified theywill be sent in parallel. 

---

 The INIT chunk suggests to the remote system that you are attempting to establish an association. Normally the destination port will be closed, and an ABORTchunk will be sent back. If the port happens to be open, the target will takethe second step of an SCTP four−way−handshakeby responding with an INIT−ACK chunk. If the machine running Nmap has a functional SCTP stack, then it tears down the nascent association by responding with an ABORTchunk rather than sending a COOKIE−ECHO chunk which would be the next step in the four−way−handshake. The ABORT packet is sent by the kernel of the machine running Nmap in response to the unexpected INIT−ACK, not by Nmap itself. 

 Nmap does not care whether the port is open or closed. Either the ABORTorINIT−ACK response discussed previously tell Nmap that the host is available and responsive. 

 On Unix boxes, only the privileged user root is generally able to send and receive raw SCTP packets. Using SCTP INIT Pings is currently not possible for unprivileged users. 

**−PE** ; **−PP** ; **−PM** (ICMP Ping Types) In addition to the unusual TCP,UDP and SCTP host discovery types discussed previously,Nmap can send the standard packets sent by the ubiquitous ping program. Nmap sends an ICMP type 8 (echo request) packet to the target IP addresses, expecting a type 0 (echo reply) in return from available hosts. Unfortunatelyfor network explorers, manyhosts and firewalls nowblock these packets, rather than responding as required by **RFC 1122** [2].For this reason, ICMP−only scans are rarely reliable enough against unknown targets overthe Internet. But for system administrators monitoring an internal network, theycan be a practical and efficient approach. Use the **−PE** option to enable this echo request behavior. 

 While echo request is the standard ICMP ping query,Nmap does not stop there. The ICMP standards ( RFC 792 [3]and RFC 950 [4])also specify timestamp request, information request, and address mask request packets as codes 13, 15, and 17, respectively. While the ostensible purpose for these queries is to learn information such as address masks and current times, theycan easily be used for host discovery. A system that replies is up and available. Nmap does not currently implement information request packets, as theyare not widely supported. RFC 1122 insists that “a host SHOULD NOT implement these messages”. Timestamp and address mask queries can be sent with the −PP and −PM options, respectively. A timestamp reply (ICMP code 14) or address mask reply (code 18) discloses that the host is available. These twoqueries can be valuable when administrators specifically block echo request packets while forgetting that other ICMP queries can be used for the same purpose. 

**−PO** _protocol list_ (IP Protocol Ping) One of the newer host discovery options is the IP protocol ping, which sends IP packets with the specified protocol number set in their IP header. The protocol list takes the same format as do port lists in the previously discussed TCP,UDP and SCTP host discovery options. If no protocols are specified, the default is to send multiple IP packets for ICMP (protocol 1), IGMP (protocol 2), and IP−in−IP (protocol 4). The default protocols can be configured at compile−time by changing _DEFAULT_PROT O_PROBE_PORT_SPEC_ in nmap.h. Note that for the ICMP,IGMP,TCP (protocol 6), UDP (protocol 17) and SCTP (protocol 132), the packets are sent with the proper protocol headers while other protocols are sent with no additional data beyond the IP header (unless anyof **−−data** , **−−data−string** ,or **−−data−length** options are specified). 

 This host discovery method looks for either responses using the same protocol as a probe, or ICMP protocol unreachable messages which signify that the givenprotocol isn't supported on the destination host. Either type of response signifies that the target host is alive. 

**−−disable−arp−ping** (No ARP or ND Ping) Nmap normally does ARP or IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND) discovery of locally connected ethernet hosts, evenifother host discovery options such as **−Pn** or **−PE** are used. Todisable this implicit behavior,use the **−−disable−arp−ping** option. 

---

 The default behavior is normally faster,but this option is useful on networks using proxy ARP,in which a router speculatively replies to all ARP requests, making every target appear to be up according to ARP scan. 

**−−discovery−ignore−rst** In some cases, firewalls may spoof TCP reset (RST) replies in response to probes to unoccupied or disallowed addresses. Since Nmap ordinarily considers RST replies to be proof that the target is up, this can lead to wasted time scanning targets that aren't there. Using the **−−discovery−ignore−rst** will prevent Nmap from considering these replies during host discovery. You may need to select extra host discovery options to ensure you don't miss targets in this case. 

**−−traceroute** (Trace path to host) Traceroutes are performed post−scan using information from the scan results to determine the port and protocol most likely to reach the target. It works with all scan types except connect scans ( **−sT** )and idle scans ( **−sI** ). All traces use Nmap's dynamic timing model and are performed in parallel. 

 Traceroute works by sending packets with a lowTTL (time−to−live)inanattempt to elicit ICMP Time Exceeded messages from intermediate hops between the scanner and the target host. Standard traceroute implementations start with a TTL of 1 and increment the TTL until the destination host is reached. Nmap's traceroute starts with a high TTL and then decrements the TTL until it reaches zero. Doing it backwards lets Nmap employclevercaching algorithms to speed up traces overmultiple hosts. On average Nmap sends 5–10 fewer packets per host, depending on network conditions. If a single subnet is being scanned (i.e. 192.168.0.0/24) Nmap may only have tosend twopackets to most hosts. 

**−n** (No DNS resolution) 

 Tells Nmap to never do reverse DNS resolution on the active IPaddresses it finds. Since DNS can be slowevenwith Nmap's built−in parallel stub resolver,this option can slash scanning times. 

**−R** (DNS resolution for all targets) Tells Nmap to _always_ do reverse DNS resolution on the target IP addresses. Normally reverse DNS is only performed against responsive (online) hosts. 

**−−resolve−all** (Scan each resolved address) If a hostname target resolves to more than one address, scan all of them. The default behavior is to only scan the first resolved address. Regardless, only addresses in the appropriate address family will be scanned: IPv4 by default, IPv6 with **−6**. 

**−−system−dns** (Use system DNS resolver) By default, Nmap reverse−resolves IP addresses by sending queries directly to the name servers configured on your host and then listening for responses. Manyrequests (often dozens) are performed in parallel to improve performance. Specify this option to use your system resolver instead (one IP at a time via the **getnameinfo** call). This is slower and rarely useful unless you find a bug in the Nmap parallel resolver (please let us knowifyou do). The system resolver is always used for forward lookups (getting an IP address from a hostname). 

**−−dns−servers** _server1_ **[,** _server2_ [,...]] (Servers to use for reverse DNS queries) By default, Nmap determines your DNS servers (for rDNS resolution) from your resolv.conf file (Unix) or the Registry (Win32). Alternatively,you may use this option to specify alternate servers. This option is not honored if you are using **−−system−dns** .Using multiple DNS servers is often faster, especially if you choose authoritative servers for your target IP space. This option can also improve stealth, as your requests can be bounced offjust about anyrecursive DNS server on the Internet. 

 This option also comes in handy when scanning private networks. Sometimes only a fewname servers provide proper rDNS information, and you may not evenknowwhere theyare. You can scan the network for port 53 (perhaps with version detection), then try Nmap list scans ( −sL )specifying each name server one at a time with −−dns−servers until you find one which works. 

---

 This option might not be honored if the DNS response exceeds the size of a UDP packet. In such a situation our DNS resolver will makethe best effort to extract a response from the truncated packet, and if not successful it will fall back to using the system resolver. Also, responses that contain CNAME aliases will fall back to the system resolver. 

# PORTSCANNING BASICS 

 While Nmap has grown in functionality overthe years, it beganasanefficient port scanner,and that remains its core function. The simple command nmap target scans 1,000 TCP ports on the host target. While manyport scanners have traditionally lumped all ports into the open or closed states, Nmap is much more granular. It divides ports into six states: open, closed, filtered, unfiltered, open|filtered, or closed|filtered. These states are not intrinsic properties of the port itself, but describe howNmap sees them. For example, an Nmap scan from the same network as the target may showport 135/tcp as open, while a scan at the same time with the same options from across the Internet might showthat port as filtered. The six port states recognized by Nmap open An application is actively accepting TCP connections, UDP datagrams or SCTP associations on this port. Finding these is often the primary goal of port scanning. Security−minded people knowthat each open port is an avenue for attack. Attackers and pen−testers want to exploit the open ports, while administrators try to close or protect them with firewalls without thwarting legitimate users. Open ports are also interesting for non−security scans because theyshowservices available for use on the network. closed Aclosed port is accessible (it receivesand responds to Nmap probe packets), but there is no application listening on it. Theycan be helpful in showing that a host is up on an IP address (host discovery,orping scanning), and as part of OS detection. Because closed ports are reachable, it may be worth scanning later in case some open up. Administrators may want to consider blocking such ports with a firewall. Then theywould appear in the filtered state, discussed next. filtered Nmap cannot determine whether the port is open because packet filtering prevents its probes from reaching the port. The filtering could be from a dedicated firewall device, router rules, or host−based firewall software. These ports frustrate attackers because theyprovide so little information. Sometimes theyrespond with ICMP error messages such as type 3 code 13 (destination unreachable: communication administratively prohibited), but filters that simply drop probes without responding are farmore common. This forces Nmap to retry several times just in case the probe was dropped due to network congestion rather than filtering. This slows down the scan dramatically. unfiltered The unfiltered state means that a port is accessible, but Nmap is unable to determine whether it is open or closed. Only the ACK scan, which is used to map firewall rulesets, classifies ports into this state. Scanning unfiltered ports with other scan types such as Windowscan, SYN scan, or FIN scan, may help resolvewhether the port is open. open|filtered Nmap places ports in this state when it is unable to determine whether a port is open or filtered. This occurs for scan types in which open ports give noresponse. The lack of response could also mean that apacket filter dropped the probe or anyresponse it elicited. So Nmap does not knowfor sure whether the port is open or being filtered. The UDP,IPprotocol, FIN, NULL, and Xmas scans classify ports this way. closed|filtered This state is used when Nmap is unable to determine whether a port is closed or filtered. It is only used for the IP ID idle scan. 

---

# PORTSCANNING TECHNIQUES 

 As a novice performing automotive repair,Ican struggle for hours trying to fit my rudimentary tools (hammer,duct tape, wrench, etc.) to the task at hand. When I fail miserably and towmyjalopytoareal mechanic, he invariably fishes around in a huge tool chest until pulling out the perfect gizmo which makes the job seem effortless. The art of port scanning is similar. Experts understand the dozens of scan techniques and choose the appropriate one (or combination) for a giventask. Inexperienced users and script kiddies, on the other hand, try to solveevery problem with the default SYN scan. Since Nmap is free, the only barrier to port scanning mastery is knowledge. That certainly beats the automotive world, where it may takegreat skill to determine that you need a strut spring compressor,then you still have topay thousands of dollars for it. Most of the scan types are only available to privileged users. This is because theysend and receive raw packets, which requires root access on Unix systems. Using an administrator account on Windows is recommended, though Nmap sometimes works for unprivileged users on that platform when Npcap has already been loaded into the OS. Requiring root privileges was a serious limitation when Nmap was released in 1997, as manyusers only had access to shared shell accounts. Now, the world is different. Computers are cheaper,far more people have always−on direct Internet access, and desktop Unix systems (including Linux and Mac OS X) are prevalent. A Windows version of Nmap is nowavailable, allowing it to run on evenmore desktops. For all these reasons, users have less need to run Nmap from limited shared shell accounts. This is fortunate, as the privileged options makeNmap far more powerful and flexible. While Nmap attempts to produce accurate results, keep in mind that all of its insights are based on packets returned by the target machines (or firewalls in front of them). Such hosts may be untrustworthyand send responses intended to confuse or mislead Nmap. Much more common are non−RFC−compliant hosts that do not respond as theyshould to Nmap probes. FIN, NULL, and Xmas scans are particularly susceptible to this problem. Such issues are specific to certain scan types and so are discussed in the individual scan type entries. This section documents the dozen or so port scan techniques supported by Nmap. Only one method may be used at a time, except that UDP scan ( −sU )and anyone of the SCTP scan types ( −sY , −sZ )may be combined with anyone of the TCP scan types. As a memory aid, port scan type options are of the form −s C ,where C is a prominent character in the scan name, usually the first. The one exception to this is the deprecated FTP bounce scan ( −b ). By default, Nmap performs a SYN Scan, though it substitutes a connect scan if the user does not have proper privileges to send rawpackets (requires root access on Unix). Of the scans listed in this section, unprivileged users can only execute connect and FTP bounce scans. −sS (TCP SYN scan) SYN scan is the default and most popular scan option for good reasons. It can be performed quickly, scanning thousands of ports per second on a fast network not hampered by restrictive firewalls. It is also relatively unobtrusive and stealthysince it nevercompletes TCP connections. SYN scan works against anycompliant TCP stack rather than depending on idiosyncrasies of specific platforms as Nmap's FIN/NULL/Xmas, Maimon and idle scans do. It also allows clear,reliable differentiation between the open, closed, and filtered states. 

 This technique is often referred to as half−open scanning, because you don't open a full TCP connection. You send a SYN packet, as if you are going to open a real connection and then wait for a response. A SYN/ACK indicates the port is listening (open), while a RST (reset) is indicative ofa non−listener. If no response is receivedafter several retransmissions, the port is marked as filtered. The port is also marked filtered if an ICMP unreachable error (type 3, code 0, 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, or 13) is received. The port is also considered open if a SYN packet (without the ACK flag) is receivedin response. This can be due to an extremely rare TCP feature known as a simultaneous open or split handshakeconnection (see https://nmap.org/misc/split-handshake.pdf ). −sT (TCP connect scan) TCP connect scan is the default TCP scan type when SYN scan is not an option. This is the case when auser does not have raw packet privileges. Instead of writing rawpackets as most other scan types do, Nmap asks the underlying operating system to establish a connection with the target machine and port 

---

 by issuing the connect system call. This is the same high−levelsystem call that web browsers, P2P clients, and most other network−enabled applications use to establish a connection. It is part of a programming interface known as the BerkeleySockets API. Rather than read rawpacket responses off the wire, Nmap uses this API to obtain status information on each connection attempt. 

 When SYN scan is available, it is usually a better choice. Nmap has less control overthe high level connect call than with rawpackets, making it less efficient. The system call completes connections to open target ports rather than performing the half−open reset that SYN scan does. Not only does this takelonger and require more packets to obtain the same information, but target machines are more likely to log the connection. A decent IDS will catch either,but most machines have nosuch alarm system. Manyservices on your average Unix system will add a note to syslog, and sometimes a cryptic error message, when Nmap connects and then closes the connection without sending data. Truly pathetic services crash when this happens, though that is uncommon. An administrator who sees a bunch of connection attempts in her logs from a single system should knowthat she has been connect scanned. 

**−sU** (UDP scans) While most popular services on the Internet run overthe TCP protocol, **UDP** [5]services are widely deployed. DNS, SNMP,and DHCP (registered ports 53, 161/162, and 67/68) are three of the most common. Because UDP scanning is generally slower and more difficult than TCP,some security auditors ignore these ports. This is a mistake, as exploitable UDP services are quite common and attackers certainly don't ignore the whole protocol. Fortunately,Nmap can help inventory UDP ports. 

 UDP scan is activated with the −sU option. It can be combined with a TCP scan type such as SYN scan ( −sS )tocheck both protocols during the same run. 

 UDP scan works by sending a UDP packet to every targeted port. For some common ports such as 53 and 161, a protocol−specific payload is sent to increase response rate, but for most ports the packet is empty unless the −−data , −−data−string ,or −−data−length options are specified. If an ICMP port unreachable error (type 3, code 3) is returned, the port is closed. Other ICMP unreachable errors (type 3, codes 0, 1, 2, 9, 10, or 13) mark the port as filtered. Occasionally,aservice will respond with a UDP packet, proving that it is open. If no response is receivedafter retransmissions, the port is classified as open|filtered. This means that the port could be open, or perhaps packet filters are blocking the communication. Version detection ( −sV )can be used to help differentiate the truly open ports from the filtered ones. 

 Abig challenge with UDP scanning is doing it quickly. Open and filtered ports rarely send any response, leaving Nmap to time out and then conduct retransmissions just in case the probe or response were lost. Closed ports are often an evenbigger problem. Theyusually send back an ICMP port unreachable error. But unlikethe RST packets sent by closed TCP ports in response to a SYN or connect scan, manyhosts rate limit ICMP port unreachable messages by default. Linux and Solaris are particularly strict about this. For example, the Linux 2.4.20 kernel limits destination unreachable messages to one per second (in net/ipv4/icmp.c). 

 Nmap detects rate limiting and slows down accordingly to avoid flooding the network with useless packets that the target machine will drop. Unfortunately,aLinux−style limit of one packet per second makes a 65,536−port scan takemore than 18 hours. Ideas for speeding your UDP scans up include scanning more hosts in parallel, doing a quick scan of just the popular ports first, scanning from behind the firewall, and using −−host−timeout to skip slowhosts. 

**−sY** (SCTP INIT scan) **SCTP** [6]is a relatively newalternative tothe TCP and UDP protocols, combining most characteristics of TCP and UDP,and also adding newfeatures likemulti−homing and multi−streaming. It is mostly being used for SS7/SIGTRAN related services but has the potential to be used for other applications as well. SCTP INIT scan is the SCTP equivalent of a TCP SYN scan. It can be performed quickly, scanning thousands of ports per second on a fast network not hampered by restrictive firewalls. Like 

---

 SYN scan, INIT scan is relatively unobtrusive and stealthy, since it nevercompletes SCTP associations. It also allows clear,reliable differentiation between the open, closed, and filtered states. 

 This technique is often referred to as half−open scanning, because you don't open a full SCTP association. You send an INIT chunk, as if you are going to open a real association and then wait for a response. An INIT−ACK chunk indicates the port is listening (open), while an ABORTchunk is indicative ofanon−listener. If no response is receivedafter several retransmissions, the port is marked as filtered. The port is also marked filtered if an ICMP unreachable error (type 3, code 0, 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, or 13) is received. 

**−sN** ; **−sF** ; **−sX** (TCP NULL, FIN, and Xmas scans) These three scan types (evenmore are possible with the **−−scanflags** option described in the next section) exploit a subtle loophole in the **TCP RFC** [7]to differentiate between open and closed ports. Page 65 of RFC 793 says that “if the [destination] port state is CLOSED .... an incoming segment not containing a RST causes a RST to be sent in response.”Then the next page discusses packets sent to open ports without the SYN, RST,orACK bits set, stating that: “you are unlikely to get here, but if you do, drop the segment, and return.” 

 When scanning systems compliant with this RFC text, anypacket not containing SYN, RST,orACK bits will result in a returned RST if the port is closed and no response at all if the port is open. As long as none of those three bits are included, anycombination of the other three (FIN, PSH, and URG) are OK. Nmap exploits this with three scan types: Null scan ( −sN ) Does not set anybits (TCP flag header is 0) FIN scan ( −sF ) Sets just the TCP FIN bit. Xmas scan ( −sX ) Sets the FIN, PSH, and URG flags, lighting the packet up likeaChristmas tree. 

 These three scan types are exactly the same in behavior except for the TCP flags set in probe packets. If a RST packet is received, the port is considered closed, while no response means it is open|filtered. The port is marked filtered if an ICMP unreachable error (type 3, code 0, 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, or 13) is received. 

 The key advantage to these scan types is that theycan sneak through certain non−stateful firewalls and packet filtering routers. Another advantage is that these scan types are a little more stealthythan evena SYN scan. Don't count on this though—most modern IDS products can be configured to detect them. The big downside is that not all systems followRFC 793 to the letter. A number of systems send RST responses to the probes regardless of whether the port is open or not. This causes all of the ports to be labeled closed. Major operating systems that do this are Microsoft Windows, manyCisco devices, BSDI, and IBM OS/400. This scan does work against most Unix−based systems though. Another downside of these scans is that theycan't distinguish open ports from certain filtered ones, leaving you with the response open|filtered. 

**−sA** (TCP ACK scan) This scan is different than the others discussed so far in that it neverdetermines open (or even open|filtered) ports. It is used to map out firewall rulesets, determining whether theyare stateful or not and which ports are filtered. 

 The ACK scan probe packet has only the ACK flag set (unless you use −−scanflags ). When scanning unfiltered systems, open and closed ports will both return a RST packet. Nmap then labels them as unfiltered, meaning that theyare reachable by the ACK packet, but whether theyare open or closed is undetermined. Ports that don't respond, or send certain ICMP error messages back (type 3, code 0, 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, or 13), are labeled filtered. 

---

**−sW** (TCP Windowscan) Windowscan is exactly the same as ACK scan except that it exploits an implementation detail of certain systems to differentiate open ports from closed ones, rather than always printing unfiltered when a RST is returned. It does this by examining the TCP Windowfield of the RST packets returned. On some systems, open ports use a positive windowsize (evenfor RST packets) while closed ones have a zero window. So instead of always listing a port as unfiltered when it receivesaRST back, Windowscan lists the port as open or closed if the TCP Windowvalue in that reset is positive orzero, respectively. 

 This scan relies on an implementation detail of a minority of systems out on the Internet, so you can't always trust it. Systems that don't support it will usually return all ports closed. Of course, it is possible that the machine really has no open ports. If most scanned ports are closed but a fewcommon port numbers (such as 22, 25, 53) are filtered, the system is most likely susceptible. Occasionally, systems will evenshowthe exact opposite behavior. If your scan shows 1,000 open ports and three closed or filtered ports, then those three may very well be the truly open ones. 

**−sM** (TCP Maimon scan) The Maimon scan is named after its discoverer,Uriel Maimon. He described the technique in Phrack Magazine issue #49 (November 1996). Nmap, which included this technique, was released twoissues later. This technique is exactly the same as NULL, FIN, and Xmas scans, except that the probe is FIN/ACK. According to **RFC 793** [7](TCP), a RST packet should be generated in response to such a probe whether the port is open or closed. However, Uriel noticed that manyBSD−derivedsystems simply drop the packet if the port is open. 

**−−scanflags** (Custom TCP scan) Truly advanced Nmap users need not limit themselves to the canned scan types offered. The **−−scanflags** option allows you to design your own scan by specifying arbitrary TCP flags. Let your creative juices flow, while evading intrusion detection systems whose vendors simply paged through the Nmap man page adding specific rules! 

 The −−scanflags argument can be a numerical flag value such as 9 (PSH and FIN), but using symbolic names is easier. Just mash together anycombination of URG, ACK, PSH, RST,SYN, and FIN. For example, −−scanflags URGACKPSHRSTSYNFIN sets everything, though it's not very useful for scanning. The order these are specified in is irrelevant. 

 In addition to specifying the desired flags, you can specify a TCP scan type (such as −sA or −sF ). That base type tells Nmap howtointerpret responses. For example, a SYN scan considers no−response to indicate a filtered port, while a FIN scan treats the same as open|filtered. Nmap will behave the same wayitdoes for the base scan type, except that it will use the TCP flags you specify instead. If you don't specify a base type, SYN scan is used. 

**−sZ** (SCTP COOKIE ECHO scan) SCTP COOKIE ECHO scan is a more advanced SCTP scan. It takes advantage of the fact that SCTP implementations should silently drop packets containing COOKIE ECHO chunks on open ports, but send an ABORTifthe port is closed. The advantage of this scan type is that it is not as obvious a port scan than an INIT scan. Also, there may be non−stateful firewall rulesets blocking INIT chunks, but not COOKIE ECHO chunks. Don't be fooled into thinking that this will makeaport scan invisible; a good IDS will be able to detect SCTP COOKIE ECHO scans too. The downside is that SCTP COOKIE ECHO scans cannot differentiate between open and filtered ports, leaving you with the state open|filtered in both cases. 

**−sI** _zombie host_ **[:** _probeport_ ](idle scan) This advanced scan method allows for a truly blind TCP port scan of the target (meaning no packets are sent to the target from your real IP address). Instead, a unique side−channel attack exploits predictable IP fragmentation ID sequence generation on the zombie host to glean information about the open ports on the target. IDS systems will display the scan as coming from the zombie machine you specify (which must be up and meet certain criteria). This fascinating scan type is too complexto 

---

 fully describe in this reference guide, so I wrote and posted an informal paper with full details at https://nmap.org/book/idlescan.html. 

 Besides being extraordinarily stealthy(due to its blind nature), this scan type permits mapping out IP−based trust relationships between machines. The port listing shows open ports from the perspective of the zombie host. So you can try scanning a target using various zombies that you think might be trusted (via router/packet filter rules). 

 Youcan add a colon followed by a port number to the zombie host if you wish to probe a particular port on the zombie for IP ID changes. Otherwise Nmap will use the port it uses by default for TCP pings (80). 

**−sO** (IP protocol scan) IP protocol scan allows you to determine which IP protocols (TCP,ICMP,IGMP,etc.) are supported by target machines. This isn't technically a port scan, since it cycles through IP protocol numbers rather than TCP or UDP port numbers. Yet it still uses the **−p** option to select scanned protocol numbers, reports its results within the normal port table format, and evenuses the same underlying scan engine as the true port scanning methods. So it is close enough to a port scan that it belongs here. 

 Besides being useful in its own right, protocol scan demonstrates the power of open−source software. While the fundamental idea is pretty simple, I had not thought to add it nor receivedany requests for such functionality. Then in the summer of 2000, Gerhard Rieger conceivedthe idea, wrote an excellent patch implementing it, and sent it to the announce mailing list (then called nmap−hackers). I incorporated that patch into the Nmap tree and released a newversion the next day. Fewpieces of commercial software have users enthusiastic enough to design and contribute their own improvements! 

 Protocol scan works in a similar fashion to UDP scan. Instead of iterating through the port number field of a UDP packet, it sends IP packet headers and iterates through the eight−bit IP protocol field. The headers are usually empty,containing no data and not eventhe proper header for the claimed protocol. The exceptions are TCP,UDP,ICMP,SCTP,and IGMP. A proper protocol header for those is included since some systems won't send them otherwise and because Nmap already has functions to create them. Instead of watching for ICMP port unreachable messages, protocol scan is on the lookout for ICMP protocol unreachable messages. If Nmap receivesany response in anyprotocol from the target host, Nmap marks that protocol as open. An ICMP protocol unreachable error (type 3, code 2) causes the protocol to be marked as closed while port unreachable (type 3, code 3) marks the protocol open. Other ICMP unreachable errors (type 3, code 0, 1, 9, 10, or 13) cause the protocol to be marked filtered (though theyprove that ICMP is open at the same time). If no response is receivedafter retransmissions, the protocol is marked open|filtered 

**−b** _FTP relay host_ (FTP bounce scan) An interesting feature of the FTP protocol ( **RFC 959** [8])issupport for so−called proxy FTP connections. This allows a user to connect to one FTP server,then ask that files be sent to a third−party server. Such a feature is ripe for abuse on manylev els, so most servers have ceased supporting it. One of the abuses this feature allows is causing the FTP server to port scan other hosts. Simply ask the FTP server to send a file to each interesting port of a target host in turn. The error message will describe whether the port is open or not. This is a good way to bypass firewalls because organizational FTP servers are often placed where theyhav emore access to other internal hosts than anyold Internet host would. Nmap supports FTP bounce scan with the **−b** option. It takes an argument of the form _username_ : _password_ @ _server_ : _port_. _Server_ is the name or IP address of a vulnerable FTP server. As with a normal URL, you may omit _username_ : _password_ ,inwhich case anonymous login credentials (user: anonymous password:−wwwuser@) are used. The port number (and preceding colon) may be omitted as well, in which case the default FTP port (21) on _server_ is used. 

 This vulnerability was widespread in 1997 when Nmap was released, but has largely been fixed. Vulnerable servers are still around, so it is worth trying when all else fails. If bypassing a firewall is your goal, scan the target network for port 21 (or evenfor anyFTP services if you scan all ports with 

---

 version detection) and use the ftp−bounce NSE script. Nmap will tell you whether the host is vulnerable or not. If you are just trying to coveryour tracks, you don't need to (and, in fact, shouldn't) limit yourself to hosts on the target network. Before you go scanning random Internet addresses for vulnerable FTP servers, consider that sysadmins may not appreciate you abusing their servers in this way. 

# PORTSPECIFICATION AND SCAN ORDER 

 In addition to all of the scan methods discussed previously,Nmap offers options for specifying which ports are scanned and whether the scan order is randomized or sequential. By default, Nmap scans the most common 1,000 ports for each protocol. 

 −p port ranges (Only scan specified ports) This option specifies which ports you want to scan and overrides the default. Individual port numbers are OK, as are ranges separated by a hyphen (e.g. 1−1023). The beginning and/or end values of a range may be omitted, causing Nmap to use 1 and 65535, respectively. So you can specify −p− to scan ports from 1 through 65535. Scanning port zero is allowed if you specify it explicitly. For IP protocol scanning ( −sO ), this option specifies the protocol numbers you wish to scan for (0–255). 

 When scanning a combination of protocols (e.g. TCP and UDP), you can specify a particular protocol by preceding the port numbers by T:for TCP,U:for UDP,S:for SCTP,orP:for IP Protocol. The qualifier lasts until you specify another qualifier. For example, the argument −p U:53,111,137,T:21−25,80,139,8080 would scan UDP ports 53, 111,and 137, as well as the listed TCP ports. Note that to scan both UDP and TCP,you have tospecify −sU and at least one TCP scan type (such as −sS , −sF ,or −sT ). If no protocol qualifier is given, the port numbers are added to all protocol lists. Portscan also be specified by name according to what the port is referred to in the nmap−services. You can evenuse the wildcards * and? with the names. For example, to scan FTP and all ports whose names begin with “http”, use −p ftp,http* .Becareful about shell expansions and quote the argument to −p if unsure. 

 Ranges of ports can be surrounded by square brackets to indicate ports inside that range that appear in nmap−services. For example, the following will scan all ports in nmap−services equal to or below 1024: −p [−1024] .Becareful with shell expansions and quote the argument to −p if unsure. −−exclude−ports port ranges (Exclude the specified ports from scanning) This option specifies which ports you do want Nmap to exclude from scanning. The port ranges are specified similar to −p .For IP protocol scanning ( −sO ), this option specifies the protocol numbers you wish to exclude (0–255). 

 When ports are asked to be excluded, theyare excluded from all types of scans (i.e. theywill not be scanned under anycircumstances). This also includes the discovery phase. −F (Fast (limited port) scan) Specifies that you wish to scan fewer ports than the default. Normally Nmap scans the most common 1,000 ports for each scanned protocol. With −F ,this is reduced to 100. 

 Nmap needs an nmap−services file with frequencyinformation in order to knowwhich ports are the most common. If port frequencyinformation isn't available, perhaps because of the use of a custom nmap−services file, Nmap scans all named ports plus ports 1−1024. In that case, −F means to scan only ports that are named in the services file. −r (Don't randomize ports) By default, Nmap randomizes the scanned port order (except that certain commonly accessible ports are movednear the beginning for efficiencyreasons). This randomization is normally desirable, but you can specify −r for sequential (sorted from lowest to highest) port scanning instead. −−port−ratio ratio <decimal number between 0 and 1> Scans all ports in nmap−services file with a ratio greater than the one given. ratio must be between 0.0 

---

 and 1.0. −−top−ports n Scans the n highest−ratio ports found in nmap−services file after excluding all ports specified by −−exclude−ports. n must be 1 or greater. 

# SERVICE AND VERSION DETECTION 

 Point Nmap at a remote machine and it might tell you that ports 25/tcp, 80/tcp, and 53/udp are open. Using its nmap−services database of about 2,200 well−known services, Nmap would report that those ports probably correspond to a mail server (SMTP), web server (HTTP), and name server (DNS) respectively. This lookup is usually accurate—the vast majority of daemons listening on TCP port 25 are, in fact, mail servers. However, you should not bet your security on this! People can and do run services on strange ports. Even if Nmap is right, and the hypothetical server above isrunning SMTP,HTTP,and DNS servers, that is not a lot of information. When doing vulnerability assessments (or evensimple network inventories) of your companies or clients, you really want to knowwhich mail and DNS servers and versions are running. Having an accurate version number helps dramatically in determining which exploits a server is vulnerable to. Version detection helps you obtain this information. After TCP and/or UDP ports are discovered using one of the other scan methods, version detection interrogates those ports to determine more about what is actually running. The nmap−service−probes database contains probes for querying various services and match expressions to recognize and parse responses. Nmap tries to determine the service protocol (e.g. FTP,SSH, Telnet, HTTP), the application name (e.g. ISC BIND, Apache httpd, Solaris telnetd), the version number,hostname, device type (e.g. printer,router), the OS family (e.g. Windows, Linux). When possible, Nmap also gets the Common Platform Enumeration (CPE) representation of this information. Sometimes miscellaneous details like whether an X server is open to connections, the SSH protocol version, or the KaZaA user name, are available. Of course, most services don't provide all of this information. If Nmap was compiled with OpenSSL support, it will connect to SSL servers to deduce the service listening behind that encryption layer. SomeUDP ports are left in the open|filtered state after a UDP port scan is unable to determine whether the port is open or filtered. Version detection will try to elicit a response from these ports (just as it does with open ports), and change the state to open if it succeeds. open|filtered TCP ports are treated the same way. Note that the Nmap −A option enables version detection among other things.Apaper documenting the workings, usage, and customization of version detection is available at https://nmap.org/book/vscan.html. When RPC services are discovered, the Nmap RPC grinder is automatically used to determine the RPC program and version numbers. It takes all the TCP/UDP ports detected as RPC and floods them with SunRPC program NULL commands in an attempt to determine whether theyare RPC ports, and if so, what program and version number theyserveup. Thus you can effectively obtain the same info as rpcinfo−p ev enifthe target's portmapper is behind a firewall (or protected by TCP wrappers). Decoys do not currently work with RPC scan. When Nmap receivesresponses from a service but cannot match them to its database, it prints out a special fingerprint and a URL for you to submit it to if you knowfor sure what is running on the port. Please takea couple minutes to makethe submission so that your find can benefit everyone. Thanks to these submissions, Nmap has about 6,500 pattern matches for more than 650 protocols such as SMTP,FTP,HTTP,etc. Version detection is enabled and controlled with the following options: −sV (Version detection) Enables version detection, as discussed above.Alternatively,you can use −A ,which enables version detection among other things. 

 −sR is an alias for −sV .Prior to March 2011, it was used to active the RPC grinder separately from version detection, but nowthese options are always combined. −−allports (Don't exclude anyports from version detection) By default, Nmap version detection skips TCP port 9100 because some printers simply print anything sent to that port, leading to dozens of pages of HTTP GET requests, binary SSL session requests, etc. 

---

 This behavior can be changed by modifying or removing the Exclude directive in nmap−service−probes, or you can specify −−allports to scan all ports regardless of anyExclude directive. −−version−intensity intensity (Set version scan intensity) When performing a version scan ( −sV ), Nmap sends a series of probes, each of which is assigned a rarity value between one and nine. The lower−numbered probes are effective against a wide variety of common services, while the higher−numbered ones are rarely useful. The intensity levelspecifies which probes should be applied. The higher the number,the more likely it is the service will be correctly identified. However, high intensity scans takelonger. The intensity must be between 0 and 9. The default is 7. When a probe is registered to the target port via the nmap−service−probes ports directive,that probe is tried regardless of intensity level. This ensures that the DNS probes will always be attempted against anyopen port 53, the SSL probe will be done against 443, etc. −−version−light (Enable light mode) This is a convenience alias for −−version−intensity 2 .This light mode makes version scanning much faster,but it is slightly less likely to identify services. −−version−all (Try every single probe) An alias for −−version−intensity 9 ,ensuring that every single probe is attempted against each port. −−version−trace (Trace version scan activity) This causes Nmap to print out extensive debugging info about what version scanning is doing. It is a subset of what you get with −−packet−trace. 

# OS DETECTION 

 One of Nmap's best−known features is remote OS detection using TCP/IP stack fingerprinting. Nmap sends aseries of TCP and UDP packets to the remote host and examines practically every bit in the responses. After performing dozens of tests such as TCP ISN sampling, TCP options support and ordering, IP ID sampling, and the initial windowsize check, Nmap compares the results to its nmap−os−db database of more than 2,600 known OS fingerprints and prints out the OS details if there is a match. Each fingerprint includes a freeform textual description of the OS, and a classification which provides the vendor name (e.g. Sun), underlying OS (e.g. Solaris), OS generation (e.g. 10), and device type (general purpose, router, switch, game console, etc). Most fingerprints also have a Common Platform Enumeration (CPE) representation, likecpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel:2.6. If Nmap is unable to guess the OS of a machine, and conditions are good (e.g. at least one open port and one closed port were found), Nmap will provide a URL you can use to submit the fingerprint if you know (for sure) the OS running on the machine. By doing this you contribute to the pool of operating systems known to Nmap and thus it will be more accurate for everyone. OS detection enables some other tests which makeuse of information that is gathered during the process anyway. One of these is TCP Sequence Predictability Classification. This measures approximately how hard it is to establish a forged TCP connection against the remote host. It is useful for exploiting source−IP based trust relationships (rlogin, firewall filters, etc) or for hiding the source of an attack. This sort of spoofing is rarely performed anymore, but manymachines are still vulnerable to it. The actual difficulty number is based on statistical sampling and may fluctuate. It is generally better to use the English classification such as “worthychallenge” or “trivial joke”. This is only reported in normal output in verbose ( −v )mode. When verbose mode is enabled along with −O ,IPIDsequence generation is also reported. Most machines are in the “incremental” class, which means that theyincrement the ID field in the IP header for each packet theysend. This makes them vulnerable to several advanced information gathering and spoofing attacks. Another bit of extra information enabled by OS detection is a guess at a target's uptime. This uses the TCP timestamp option ( RFC 1323 [9])toguess when a machine was last rebooted. The guess can be inaccurate due to the timestamp counter not being initialized to zero or the counter overflowing and wrapping around, so it is printed only in verbose mode. Apaper documenting the workings, usage, and customization of OS detection is available at https://nmap.org/book/osdetect.html. 

---

 OS detection is enabled and controlled with the following options: −O (Enable OS detection) Enables OS detection, as discussed above.Alternatively,you can use −A to enable OS detection along with other things. −−osscan−limit (Limit OS detection to promising targets) OS detection is far more effective ifatleast one open and one closed TCP port are found. Set this option and Nmap will not eventry OS detection against hosts that do not meet this criteria. This can save substantial time, particularly on −Pn scans against manyhosts. It only matters when OS detection is requested with −O or −A. −−osscan−guess ; −−fuzzy (Guess OS detection results) When Nmap is unable to detect a perfect OS match, it sometimes offers up near−matches as possibilities. The match has to be very close for Nmap to do this by default. Either of these (equivalent) options makeNmap guess more aggressively. Nmap will still tell you when an imperfect match is printed and display its confidence level(percentage) for each guess. −−max−os−tries (Set the maximum number of OS detection tries against a target) When Nmap performs OS detection against a target and fails to find a perfect match, it usually repeats the attempt. By default, Nmap tries fivetimes if conditions are favorable for OS fingerprint submission, and twice when conditions aren't so good. Specifying a lower −−max−os−tries value (such as 1) speeds Nmap up, though you miss out on retries which could potentially identify the OS. Alternatively,ahigh value may be set to allowevenmore retries when conditions are favorable. This is rarely done, except to generate better fingerprints for submission and integration into the Nmap OS database. 

# NMAP SCRIPTING ENGINE (NSE) 

 The Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) is one of Nmap's most powerful and flexible features. It allows users to write (and share) simple scripts (using the Lua programming language [10] 

 )toautomate a wide variety of networking tasks. Those scripts are executed in parallel with the speed and efficiencyyou expect from Nmap. Users can rely on the growing and diverse set of scripts distributed with Nmap, or write their own to meet custom needs. Ta sks we had in mind when creating the system include network discovery,more sophisticated version detection, vulnerability detection. NSE can evenbeused for vulnerability exploitation. To reflect those different uses and to simplify the choice of which scripts to run, each script contains a field associating it with one or more categories. Currently defined categories are auth, broadcast, default. discovery,dos, exploit, external, fuzzer,intrusive,malware, safe, version, and vuln. These are all described at https://nmap.org/book/nse-usage.html#nse-categories. Scripts are not run in a sandbox and thus could accidentally or maliciously damage your system or invade your privacy.Nev errun scripts from third parties unless you trust the authors or have carefully audited the scripts yourself. The Nmap Scripting Engine is described in detail at https://nmap.org/book/nse.html 

 and is controlled by the following options: −sC Performs a script scan using the default set of scripts. It is equivalent to −−script=default .Some of the scripts in this category are considered intrusive and should not be run against a target network without permission. −−script filename | category | directory /| expression [,...] Runs a script scan using the comma−separated list of filenames, script categories, and directories. Each element in the list may also be a Boolean expression describing a more complexset of scripts. Each element is interpreted first as an expression, then as a category,and finally as a file or directory name. 

---

 There are twospecial features for advanced users only. One is to prefix script names and expressions with + to force them to run eveniftheynormally wouldn't (e.g. the relevant service wasn't detected on the target port). The other is that the argument all may be used to specify every script in Nmap's database. Be cautious with this because NSE contains dangerous scripts such as exploits, brute force authentication crackers, and denial of service attacks. 

 File and directory names may be relative orabsolute. Absolute names are used directly. Relative paths are looked for in the scripts of each of the following places until found: −−datadir $NMAPDIR ̃/.nmap (not searched on Windows) APPDATA \nmap (only on Windows) the directory containing the nmap executable the directory containing the nmap executable, followed by ../share/nmap (not searched on Windows) NMAPDATADIR (not searched on Windows) the current directory. 

 When a directory name ending in / is given, Nmap loads every file in the directory whose name ends with .nse. All other files are ignored and directories are not searched recursively. When a filename is given, it does not have tohav ethe .nse extension; it will be added automatically if necessary. Nmap scripts are stored in a scripts subdirectory of the Nmap data directory by default (see https://nmap.org/book/data-files.html ). 

 Forefficiency, scripts are indexedinadatabase stored in scripts/script.db, which lists the category or categories in which each script belongs. When referring to scripts from script.db by name, you can use a shell−style ‘*’ wildcard. nmap −−script "http−*" Loads all scripts whose name starts with http−, such as http−auth and http−open−proxy. The argument to −−script had to be in quotes to protect the wildcard from the shell. 

 More complicated script selection can be done using the and, or,and not operators to build Boolean expressions. The operators have the same precedence [11]as in Lua: not is the highest, followed by and and then or. You can alter precedence by using parentheses. Because expressions contain space characters it is necessary to quote them. nmap −−script "not intrusive" Loads every script except for those in the intrusive category. nmap −−script "default or safe" This is functionally equivalent to nmap −−script "default,safe" .Itloads all scripts that are in the default category or the safe category or both. nmap −−script "default and safe" Loads those scripts that are in both the default and safe categories. nmap −−script "(default or safe or intrusive)and not http−*" Loads scripts in the default, safe, or intrusive categories, except for those whose names start with http−. 

**−−script−args** _n1_ **=** _v1_ **,** _n2_ **={** _n3_ **=** _v3_ **},** _n4_ **={** _v4_ **,** _v5_ **}** Lets you provide arguments to NSE scripts. Arguments are a comma−separated list of name=value pairs. Names and values may be strings not containing whitespace or the characters ‘{’, ‘}’, ‘=’, or ‘,’. To include one of these characters in a string, enclose the string in single or double quotes. Within a quoted string, ‘\’ escapes a quote. A backslash is only used to escape quotation marks in this special case; in all other cases a backslash is interpreted literally. Values may also be tables enclosed in {}, just as in Lua. A table may contain simple string values or more name−value pairs, including nested 

---

 tables. Manyscripts qualify their arguments with the script name, as in xmpp−info.server_name. You may use that full qualified version to affect just the specified script, or you may pass the unqualified version (server_name in this case) to affect all scripts using that argument name. A script will first check for its fully qualified argument name (the name specified in its documentation) before it accepts an unqualified argument name. A complexexample of script arguments is −−script−args 'user=foo,pass=",{}=bar",whois={whodb=nofollow+ripe},xmpp−info.server_name=localhost'. The online NSE Documentation Portal at https://nmap.org/nsedoc/ lists the arguments that each script accepts. −−script−args−file filename Lets you load arguments to NSE scripts from a file. Anyarguments on the command line supersede ones in the file. The file can be an absolute path, or a path relative toNmap's usual search path (NMAPDIR, etc.) Arguments can be comma−separated or newline−separated, but otherwise follow the same rules as for −−script−args ,without requiring special quoting and escaping, since theyare not parsed by the shell. −−script−help filename | category | directory | expression |all[,...] Shows help about scripts. For each script matching the givenspecification, Nmap prints the script name, its categories, and its description. The specifications are the same as those accepted by −−script ;sofor example if you want help about the ftp−anon script, you would run nmap −−script−help ftp−anon .Inaddition to getting help for individual scripts, you can use this as a previewofwhat scripts will be run for a specification, for example with nmap −−script−help default. −−script−trace This option does what −−packet−trace does, just one ISO layer higher. If this option is specified all incoming and outgoing communication performed by a script is printed. The displayed information includes the communication protocol, the source, the target and the transmitted data. If more than 5% of all transmitted data is not printable, then the trace output is in a hexdump format. Specifying −−packet−trace enables script tracing too. −−script−updatedb This option updates the script database found in scripts/script.db which is used by Nmap to determine the available default scripts and categories. It is only necessary to update the database if you have added or removedNSE scripts from the default scripts directory or if you have changed the categories of anyscript. This option is generally used by itself: nmap −−script−updatedb. 

# TIMING AND PERFORMANCE 

 One of my highest Nmap development priorities has always been performance. A default scan ( nmap hostname )ofahost on my local network takes a fifth of a second. That is barely enough time to blink, but adds up when you are scanning hundreds or thousands of hosts. Moreover, certain scan options such as UDP scanning and version detection can increase scan times substantially. So can certain firewall configurations, particularly response rate limiting. While Nmap utilizes parallelism and manyadvanced algorithms to accelerate these scans, the user has ultimate control overhow Nmap runs. Expert users carefully craft Nmap commands to obtain only the information theycare about while meeting their time constraints. Techniques for improving scan times include omitting non−critical tests, and upgrading to the latest version of Nmap (performance enhancements are made frequently). Optimizing timing parameters can also makea substantial difference. Those options are listed below. Some options accept a time parameter. This is specified in seconds by default, though you can append ‘ms’, ‘s’, ‘m’, or ‘h’ to the value to specify milliseconds, seconds, minutes, or hours. So the −−host−timeout arguments 900000ms, 900, 900s, and 15m all do the same thing. −−min−hostgroup numhosts ; −−max−hostgroup numhosts (Adjust parallel scan group sizes) Nmap has the ability to port scan or version scan multiple hosts in parallel. Nmap does this by dividing the target IP space into groups and then scanning one group at a time. In general, larger groups are more efficient. The downside is that host results can't be provided until the whole group is finished. So if Nmap started out with a group size of 50, the user would not receive any reports (except 

---

 for the updates offered in verbose mode) until the first 50 hosts are completed. 

 By default, Nmap takes a compromise approach to this conflict. It starts out with a group size as lowas fivesothe first results come quickly and then increases the groupsize to as high as 1024. The exact default numbers depend on the options given. For efficiencyreasons, Nmap uses larger group sizes for UDP or few−port TCP scans. 

 When a maximum group size is specified with −−max−hostgroup ,Nmap will neverexceed that size. Specify a minimum size with −−min−hostgroup and Nmap will try to keep group sizes above that level. Nmap may have touse smaller groups than you specify if there are not enough target hosts left on a giveninterface to fulfill the specified minimum. Both may be set to keep the group size within a specific range, though this is rarely desired. 

 These options do not have aneffect during the host discovery phase of a scan. This includes plain ping scans ( −sn ). Host discovery always works in large groups of hosts to improve speed and accuracy. 

 The primary use of these options is to specify a large minimum group size so that the full scan runs more quickly. A common choice is 256 to scan a network in /24 sized chunks. For a scan with many ports, exceeding that number is unlikely to help much. For scans of just a fewport numbers, host group sizes of 2048 or more may be helpful. 

**−−min−parallelism** _numprobes_ ; **−−max−parallelism** _numprobes_ (Adjust probe parallelization) These options control the total number of probes that may be outstanding for a host group. Theyare used for port scanning and host discovery. By default, Nmap calculates an ever−changing ideal parallelism based on network performance. If packets are being dropped, Nmap slows down and allows fewer outstanding probes. The ideal probe number slowly rises as the network provesitself worthy. These options place minimum or maximum bounds on that variable. By default, the ideal parallelism can drop to one if the network provesunreliable and rise to several hundred in perfect conditions. 

 The most common usage is to set −−min−parallelism to a number higher than one to speed up scans of poorly performing hosts or networks. This is a riskyoption to play with, as setting it too high may affect accuracy. Setting this also reduces Nmap's ability to control parallelism dynamically based on network conditions. A value of 10 might be reasonable, though I only adjust this value as a last resort. 

 The −−max−parallelism option is sometimes set to one to prevent Nmap from sending more than one probe at a time to hosts. The −−scan−delay option, discussed later,isanother way to do this. 

**−−min−rtt−timeout** _time_ , **−−max−rtt−timeout** _time_ , **−−initial−rtt−timeout** _time_ (Adjust probe timeouts) Nmap maintains a running timeout value for determining howlong it will wait for a probe response before giving up or retransmitting the probe. This is calculated based on the response times of previous probes. 

 If the network latencyshows itself to be significant and variable, this timeout can growtosev eral seconds. It also starts at a conservative (high) leveland may stay that way for a while when Nmap scans unresponsive hosts. 

 Specifying a lower −−max−rtt−timeout and −−initial−rtt−timeout than the defaults can cut scan times significantly. This is particularly true for pingless ( −Pn )scans, and those against heavily filtered networks. Don't get too aggressive though. The scan can end up taking longer if you specify such a lowvalue that manyprobes are timing out and retransmitting while the response is in transit. 

 If all the hosts are on a local network, 100 milliseconds ( −−max−rtt−timeout 100ms )isareasonable aggressive value. If routing is involved, ping a host on the network first with the ICMP ping utility,or with a custom packet crafter such as Nping that is more likely to get through a firewall. Look at the maximum round trip time out of ten packets or so. You might want to double that for the 

---

 −−initial−rtt−timeout and triple or quadruple it for the −−max−rtt−timeout .Igenerally do not set the maximum RTT below100 ms, no matter what the ping times are. Nor do I exceed 1000 ms. 

 −−min−rtt−timeout is a rarely used option that could be useful when a network is so unreliable that ev enNmap's default is too aggressive.Since Nmap only reduces the timeout down to the minimum when the network seems to be reliable, this need is unusual and should be reported as a bug to the nmap−devmailing list. 

**−−max−retries** _numtries_ (Specify the maximum number of port scan probe retransmissions) When Nmap receivesnoresponse to a port scan probe, it could mean the port is filtered. Or maybe the probe or response was simply lost on the network. It is also possible that the target host has rate limiting enabled that temporarily blocked the response. So Nmap tries again by retransmitting the initial probe. If Nmap detects poor network reliability,itmay try manymore times before giving up on aport. While this benefits accuracy, italso lengthens scan times. When performance is critical, scans may be sped up by limiting the number of retransmissions allowed. You can evenspecify **−−max−retries 0** to prevent anyretransmissions, though that is only recommended for situations such as informal surveyswhere occasional missed ports and hosts are acceptable. 

 The default (with no −T template) is to allowten retransmissions. If a network seems reliable and the target hosts aren't rate limiting, Nmap usually only does one retransmission. So most target scans aren't evenaffected by dropping −−max−retries to a lowvalue such as three. Such values can substantially speed scans of slow(rate limited) hosts. You usually lose some information when Nmap givesuponports early,though that may be preferable to letting the −−host−timeout expire and losing all information about the target. 

**−−host−timeout** _time_ (Give uponslowtarget hosts) Some hosts simply takea _long_ time to scan. This may be due to poorly performing or unreliable networking hardware or software, packet rate limiting, or a restrictive firewall. The slowest few percent of the scanned hosts can eat up a majority of the scan time. Sometimes it is best to cut your losses and skip those hosts initially. Specify **−−host−timeout** with the maximum amount of time you are willing to wait. For example, specify 30m to ensure that Nmap doesn't waste more than half an hour on a single host. Note that Nmap may be scanning other hosts at the same time during that half an hour,soitisn't a complete loss. A host that times out is skipped. No port table, OS detection, or version detection results are printed for that host. 

**−−script−timeout** _time_ While some scripts complete in fractions of a second, others can takehours or more depending on the nature of the script, arguments passed in, network and application conditions, and more. The **−−script−timeout** option sets a ceiling on script execution time. Anyscript instance which exceeds that time will be terminated and no output will be shown. If debugging ( **−d** )isenabled, Nmap will report on each timeout. For host and service scripts, a script instance only scans a single target host or port and the timeout period will be reset for the next instance. 

**−−scan−delay** _time_ ; **−−max−scan−delay** _time_ (Adjust delay between probes) This option causes Nmap to wait at least the givenamount of time between each probe it sends to a givenhost. This is particularly useful in the case of rate limiting. Solaris machines (among many others) will usually respond to UDP scan probe packets with only one ICMP message per second. Any more than that sent by Nmap will be wasteful. A **−−scan−delay** of 1s will keep Nmap at that slow rate. Nmap tries to detect rate limiting and adjust the scan delay accordingly,but it doesn't hurt to specify it explicitly if you already knowwhat rate works best. 

 When Nmap adjusts the scan delay upward to cope with rate limiting, the scan slows down dramatically. The −−max−scan−delay option specifies the largest delay that Nmap will allow. A low −−max−scan−delay can speed up Nmap, but it is risky. Setting this value too lowcan lead to wasteful packet retransmissions and possible missed ports when the target implements strict rate limiting. 

 Another use of −−scan−delay is to evade threshold based intrusion detection and prevention systems 

---

## (IDS/IPS). 

**−−min−rate** _number_ ; **−−max−rate** _number_ (Directly control the scanning rate) Nmap's dynamic timing does a good job of finding an appropriate speed at which to scan. Sometimes, however, you may happen to knowanappropriate scanning rate for a network, or you may have to guarantee that a scan will be finished by a certain time. Or perhaps you must keep Nmap from scanning too quickly. The **−−min−rate** and **−−max−rate** options are designed for these situations. 

 When the −−min−rate option is givenNmap will do its best to send packets as fast as or faster than the givenrate. The argument is a positive real number representing a packet rate in packets per second. Forexample, specifying −−min−rate 300 means that Nmap will try to keep the sending rate at or above 300 packets per second. Specifying a minimum rate does not keep Nmap from going faster if conditions warrant. 

 Likewise, −−max−rate limits a scan's sending rate to a givenmaximum. Use −−max−rate 100 ,for example, to limit sending to 100 packets per second on a fast network. Use −−max−rate 0.1 for a slow scan of one packet every ten seconds. Use −−min−rate and −−max−rate together to keep the rate inside a certain range. 

 These twooptions are global, affecting an entire scan, not individual hosts. Theyonly affect port scans and host discovery scans. Other features likeOSdetection implement their own timing. 

 There are twoconditions when the actual scanning rate may fall belowthe requested minimum. The first is if the minimum is faster than the fastest rate at which Nmap can send, which is dependent on hardware. In this case Nmap will simply send packets as fast as possible, but be aware that such high rates are likely to cause a loss of accuracy. The second case is when Nmap has nothing to send, for example at the end of a scan when the last probes have been sent and Nmap is waiting for them to time out or be responded to. It's normal to see the scanning rate drop at the end of a scan or in between hostgroups. The sending rate may temporarily exceed the maximum to makeupfor unpredictable delays, but on average the rate will stay at or belowthe maximum. 

 Specifying a minimum rate should be done with care. Scanning faster than a network can support may lead to a loss of accuracy. In some cases, using a faster rate can makeascan take longer than it would with a slower rate. This is because Nmap's adaptive retransmission algorithms will detect the network congestion caused by an excessive scanning rate and increase the number of retransmissions in order to improve accuracy. So eventhough packets are sent at a higher rate, more packets are sent overall. Cap the number of retransmissions with the −−max−retries option if you need to set an upper limit on total scan time. 

**−−defeat−rst−ratelimit** Manyhosts have long used rate limiting to reduce the number of ICMP error messages (such as port−unreachable errors) theysend. Some systems nowapply similar rate limits to the RST (reset) packets theygenerate. This can slowNmap down dramatically as it adjusts its timing to reflect those rate limits. You can tell Nmap to ignore those rate limits (for port scans such as SYN scan which _don't_ treat non−responsive ports as open) by specifying **−−defeat−rst−ratelimit**. 

 Using this option can reduce accuracy, assome ports will appear non−responsive because Nmap didn't wait long enough for a rate−limited RST response. With a SYN scan, the non−response results in the port being labeled filtered rather than the closed state we see when RST packets are received. This option is useful when you only care about open ports, and distinguishing between closed and filtered ports isn't worth the extra time. 

**−−defeat−icmp−ratelimit** Similar to **−−defeat−rst−ratelimit** ,the **−−defeat−icmp−ratelimit** option trades accuracyfor speed, increasing UDP scanning speed against hosts that rate−limit ICMP error messages. Because this option causes Nmap to not delay in order to receive the port unreachable messages, a non−responsive 

---

 port will be labeled closed|filtered instead of the default open|filtered. This has the effect of only treating ports which actually respond via UDP as open. Since manyUDP services do not respond in this way,the chance for inaccuracyisgreater with this option than with −−defeat−rst−ratelimit. −−nsock−engine epoll|kqueue|poll|select Enforce use of a givennsock IO multiplexing engine. Only the select(2)−based fallback engine is guaranteed to be available on your system. Engines are named after the name of the IO management facility theylev erage. Engines currently implemented are epoll, kqueue, poll, and select, but not all will be present on anyplatform. Use nmap −V to see which engines are supported. −T paranoid|sneaky|polite|normal|aggressive|insane (Set a timing template) While the fine−grained timing controls discussed in the previous section are powerful and effective, some people find them confusing. Moreover, choosing the appropriate values can sometimes takemore time than the scan you are trying to optimize. Fortunately,Nmap offers a simpler approach, with six timing templates. You can specify them with the −T option and their number (0–5) or their name. The template names are paranoid ( 0 ), sneaky ( 1 ), polite ( 2 ), normal ( 3 ), aggressive ( 4 ), and insane ( 5 ). The first twoare for IDS evasion. Polite mode slows down the scan to use less bandwidth and target machine resources. Normal mode is the default and so −T3 does nothing. Aggressive mode speeds scans up by making the assumption that you are on a reasonably fast and reliable network. Finally insane mode assumes that you are on an extraordinarily fast network or are willing to sacrifice some accuracyfor speed. 

 These templates allowthe user to specify howaggressive theywish to be, while leaving Nmap to pick the exact timing values. The templates also makesome minor speed adjustments for which fine−grained control options do not currently exist. For example, −T4 prohibits the dynamic scan delay from exceeding 10 ms for TCP ports and −T5 caps that value at 5 ms. Templates can be used in combination with fine−grained controls, and the fine−grained controls that you specify will take precedence overthe timing template default for that parameter. I recommend using −T4 when scanning reasonably modern and reliable networks. Keep that option evenwhen you add fine−grained controls so that you benefit from those extra minor optimizations that it enables. 

 If you are on a decent broadband or ethernet connection, I would recommend always using −T4 .Some people love −T5 though it is too aggressive for my taste. People sometimes specify −T2 because they think it is less likely to crash hosts or because theyconsider themselves to be polite in general. They often don't realize just howslow −T polite really is. Their scan may taketen times longer than a default scan. Machine crashes and bandwidth problems are rare with the default timing options ( −T3 ) and so I normally recommend that for cautious scanners. Omitting version detection is far more effective than playing with timing values at reducing these problems. 

 While −T0 and −T1 may be useful for avoiding IDS alerts, theywill takeanextraordinarily long time to scan thousands of machines or ports. For such a long scan, you may prefer to set the exact timing values you need rather than rely on the canned −T0 and −T1 values. 

 The main effects of T0 are serializing the scan so only one port is scanned at a time, and waiting five minutes between sending each probe. T1 and T2 are similar but theyonly wait 15 seconds and 0.4 seconds, respectively,between probes. T3 is Nmap's default behavior,which includes parallelization. −T4 does the equivalent of −−max−rtt−timeout 1250ms −−min−rtt−timeout 100ms −−initial−rtt−timeout 500ms −−max−retries 6 and sets the maximum TCP scan delay to 10 milliseconds. T5 does the equivalent of −−max−rtt−timeout 300ms −−min−rtt−timeout 50ms −−initial−rtt−timeout 250ms −−max−retries 2 −−host−timeout 15m −−script−timeout 10m as well as setting the maximum TCP scan delay to 5 ms. 

# FIREWALL/IDS EVASION AND SPOOFING 

 ManyInternet pioneers envisioned a global open network with a universal IP address space allowing virtual connections between anytwo nodes. This allows hosts to act as true peers, serving and retrieving information from each other. People could access all of their home systems from work, changing the 

---

climate control settings or unlocking the doors for early guests. This vision of universal connectivity has been stifled by address space shortages and security concerns. In the early 1990s, organizations began deploying firewalls for the express purpose of reducing connectivity. Huge networks were cordoned off from the unfiltered Internet by application proxies, network address translation, and packet filters. The unrestricted flowofinformation gav ewaytotight regulation of approvedcommunication channels and the content that passes overthem. 

Network obstructions such as firewalls can makemapping a network exceedingly difficult. It will not get anyeasier,asstifling casual reconnaissance is often a key goal of implementing the devices. Nevertheless, Nmap offers manyfeatures to help understand these complexnetworks, and to verify that filters are working as intended. It evensupports mechanisms for bypassing poorly implemented defenses. One of the best methods of understanding your network security posture is to try to defeat it. Place yourself in the mind−set of an attacker,and deploytechniques from this section against your networks. Launch an FTP bounce scan, idle scan, fragmentation attack, or try to tunnel through one of your own proxies. 

In addition to restricting network activity,companies are increasingly monitoring traffic with intrusion detection systems (IDS). All of the major IDSs ship with rules designed to detect Nmap scans because scans are sometimes a precursor to attacks. Manyofthese products have recently morphed into intrusion _prevention_ systems (IPS) that actively block traffic deemed malicious. Unfortunately for network administrators and IDS vendors, reliably detecting bad intentions by analyzing packet data is a tough problem. Attackers with patience, skill, and the help of certain Nmap options can usually pass by IDSs undetected. Meanwhile, administrators must cope with large numbers of false positive results where innocent activity is misdiagnosed and alerted on or blocked. 

Occasionally people suggest that Nmap should not offer features for evading firewall rules or sneaking past IDSs. Theyargue that these features are just as likely to be misused by attackers as used by administrators to enhance security. The problem with this logic is that these methods would still be used by attackers, who would just find other tools or patch the functionality into Nmap. Meanwhile, administrators would find it that much harder to do their jobs. Deploying only modern, patched FTP servers is a far more powerful defense than trying to prevent the distribution of tools implementing the FTP bounce attack. 

There is no magic bullet (or Nmap option) for detecting and subverting firewalls and IDS systems. It takes skill and experience. A tutorial is beyond the scope of this reference guide, which only lists the relevant options and describes what theydo. 

**−f** (fragment packets); **−−mtu** (using the specified MTU) The **−f** option causes the requested scan (including host discovery scans) to use tinyfragmented IP packets. The idea is to split up the TCP header oversev eral packets to makeitharder for packet filters, intrusion detection systems, and other annoyances to detect what you are doing. Be careful with this! Some programs have trouble handling these tinypackets. The old−school sniffer named Sniffit segmentation faulted immediately upon receiving the first fragment. Specify this option once, and Nmap splits the packets into eight bytes or less after the IP header. So a 20−byte TCP header would be split into three packets. Two with eight bytes of the TCP header,and one with the final four. Of course each fragment also has an IP header. Specify **−f** again to use 16 bytes per fragment (reducing the number of fragments). Or you can specify your own offset size with the **−−mtu** option. Don't also specify **−f** if you use **−−mtu** .The offset must be a multiple of eight. While fragmented packets won't get by packet filters and firewalls that queue all IP fragments, such as the _CONFIG_IP_ALWA YS_DEFRAG_ option in the Linux kernel, some networks can't afford the performance hit this causes and thus leave itdisabled. Others can't enable this because fragments may takedifferent routes into their networks. Some source systems defragment outgoing packets in the kernel. Linux with the iptables connection tracking module is one such example. Do a scan while a sniffer such as Wireshark is running to ensure that sent packets are fragmented. If your host OS is causing problems, try the **−−send−eth** option to bypass the IP layer and send rawethernet frames. 

 Fragmentation is only supported for Nmap's rawpacket features, which includes TCP and UDP port scans (except connect scan and FTP bounce scan) and OS detection. Features such as version detection and the Nmap Scripting Engine generally don't support fragmentation because theyrely on your host's 

---

 TCP stack to communicate with target services. 

**−D** _decoy1_ **[,** _decoy2_ ] **[,ME][,...]** (Cloak a scan with decoys) Causes a decoyscan to be performed, which makes it appear to the remote host that the host(s) you specify as decoys are scanning the target network too. Thus their IDS might report 5–10 port scans from unique IP addresses, but theywon't knowwhich IP was scanning them and which were innocent decoys. While this can be defeated through router path tracing, response−dropping, and other active mechanisms, it is generally an effective technique for hiding your IP address. 

 Separate each decoyhost with commas, and you can optionally use ME as one of the decoys to represent the position for your real IP address. If you put ME in the sixth position or later,some common port scan detectors (such as Solar Designer's excellent Scanlogd) are unlikely to showyour IP address at all. If you don't use ME, Nmap will put you in a random position. You can also use RND to generate a random, non−reserved IP address, or RND: number to generate number addresses. 

 Note that the hosts you use as decoys should be up or you might accidentally SYN flood your targets. Also it will be pretty easy to determine which host is scanning if only one is actually up on the network. You might want to use IP addresses instead of names (so the decoynetworks don't see you in their nameserver logs). Right nowrandom IP address generation is only supported with IPv4 

 Decoys are used both in the initial host discovery scan (using ICMP,SYN, ACK, or whatever) and during the actual port scanning phase. Decoys are also used during remote OS detection ( −O ). Decoys do not work with version detection or TCP connect scan. When a scan delay is in effect, the delay is enforced between each batch of spoofed probes, not between each individual probe. Because decoys are sent as a batch all at once, theymay temporarily violate congestion control limits. 

 It is worth noting that using too manydecoys may slowyour scan and potentially evenmakeitless accurate. Also, some ISPs will filter out your spoofed packets, but manydonot restrict spoofed IP packets at all. 

**−S** _IP_Address_ (Spoof source address) In some circumstances, Nmap may not be able to determine your source address (Nmap will tell you if this is the case). In this situation, use **−S** with the IP address of the interface you wish to send packets through. 

 Another possible use of this flag is to spoof the scan to makethe targets think that someone else is scanning them. Imagine a companybeing repeatedly port scanned by a competitor! The −e option and −Pn are generally required for this sort of usage. Note that you usually won't receive reply packets back (theywill be addressed to the IP you are spoofing), so Nmap won't produce useful reports. 

**−e** _interface_ (Use specified interface) Tells Nmap what interface to send and receive packets on. Nmap should be able to detect this automatically,but it will tell you if it cannot. 

**−−source−port** _portnumber_ **;−g** _portnumber_ (Spoof source port number) One surprisingly common misconfiguration is to trust traffic based only on the source port number. It is easy to understand howthis comes about. An administrator will set up a shinynew firewall, only to be flooded with complaints from ungrateful users whose applications stopped working. In particular, DNS may be broken because the UDP DNS replies from external servers can no longer enter the network. FTP is another common example. In active FTP transfers, the remote server tries to establish aconnection back to the client to transfer the requested file. 

 Secure solutions to these problems exist, often in the form of application−levelproxies or protocol−parsing firewall modules. Unfortunately there are also easier,insecure solutions. Noting that DNS replies come from port 53 and active FTP from port 20, manyadministrators have fallen into the trap of simply allowing incoming traffic from those ports. Theyoften assume that no attacker would notice and exploit such firewall holes. In other cases, administrators consider this a short−term 

---

 stop−gap measure until theycan implement a more secure solution. Then theyforget the security upgrade. 

 Overworked network administrators are not the only ones to fall into this trap. Numerous products have shipped with these insecure rules. Even Microsoft has been guilty. The IPsec filters that shipped with Windows 2000 and Windows XP contain an implicit rule that allows all TCP or UDP traffic from port 88 (Kerberos). In another well−known case, versions of the Zone Alarm personal firewall up to 2.1.25 allowed anyincoming UDP packets with the source port 53 (DNS) or 67 (DHCP). 

 Nmap offers the −g and −−source−port options (theyare equivalent) to exploit these weaknesses. Simply provide a port number and Nmap will send packets from that port where possible. Most scanning operations that use rawsockets, including SYN and UDP scans, support the option completely. The option notably doesn't have aneffect for anyoperations that use normal operating system sockets, including DNS requests, TCP connect scan, version detection, and script scanning. Setting the source port also doesn't work for OS detection, because Nmap must use different port numbers for certain OS detection tests to work properly. 

**−−data** _hexstring_ (Append custom binary data to sent packets) This option lets you include binary data as payload in sent packets. _hexstring_ may be specified in any of the following formats: 0xAABBCCDDEEFF _..._ ,AABBCCDDEEFF _..._ or \xAA\xBB\xCC\xDD\xEE\xFF _..._ .Examples of use are **−−data 0xdeadbeef** and **−−data \xCA\xFE\x09** .Note that if you specify a number like0x00ffnobyte−order conversion is performed. Makesure you specify the information in the byte order expected by the receiver. 

**−−data−string** _string_ (Append custom string to sent packets) This option lets you include a regular string as payload in sent packets. _string_ can contain anystring. However, note that some characters may depend on your system's locale and the receivermay not see the same information. Also, makesure you enclose the string in double quotes and escape anyspecial characters from the shell. Examples: **−−data−string "Scan conducted by Security Ops, extension 7192"** or **−−data−string "Ph34r my l33t skills"** .Keep in mind that nobody is likely to actually see anycomments left by this option unless theyare carefully monitoring the network with a sniffer or custom IDS rules. 

**−−data−length** _number_ (Append random data to sent packets) Normally Nmap sends minimalist packets containing only a header. So its TCP packets are generally 40 bytes and ICMP echo requests are just 28. Some UDP ports and IP protocols get a custom payload by default. This option tells Nmap to append the givennumber of random bytes to most of the packets it sends, and not to use anyprotocol−specific payloads. (Use **−−data−length 0** for no random or protocol−specific payloads. OS detection ( **−O** )packets are not affected because accuracythere requires probe consistency, but most pinging and portscan packets support this. It slows things down a little, but can makeascan slightly less conspicuous. 

**−−ip−options** _S|R [route]|L [route]|T|U ..._ **;−−ip−options** _hexstring_ (Send packets with specified ip options) The **IP protocol** [12]offers several options which may be placed in packet headers. Unlikethe ubiquitous TCP options, IP options are rarely seen due to practicality and security concerns. In fact, manyInternet routers block the most dangerous options such as source routing. Yet options can still be useful in some cases for determining and manipulating the network route to target machines. For example, you may be able to use the record route option to determine a path to a target evenwhen more traditional traceroute−style approaches fail. Or if your packets are being dropped by a certain firewall, you may be able to specify a different route with the strict or loose source routing options. 

 The most powerful way to specify IP options is to simply pass in values as the argument to −−ip−options .Precede each hexnumber with \x then the twodigits. You may repeat certain characters by following them with an asterisk and then the number of times you wish them to repeat. For example, \x01\x07\x04\x00*36\x01 is a hexstring containing 36 NUL bytes. 

---

 Nmap also offers a shortcut mechanism for specifying options. Simply pass the letter R, T,orUto request record−route, record−timestamp, or both options together,respectively. Loose or strict source routing may be specified with an L or S followed by a space and then a space−separated list of IP addresses. 

 If you wish to see the options in packets sent and received, specify −−packet−trace .For more information and examples of using IP options with Nmap, see http://seclists.org/nmap-dev/2006/q3/52. 

**−−ttl** _value_ (Set IP time−to−live field) Sets the IPv4 time−to−live field in sent packets to the givenvalue. 

**−−randomize−hosts** (Randomize target host order) Tells Nmap to shuffle each group of up to 16384 hosts before it scans them. This can makethe scans less obvious to various network monitoring systems, especially when you combine it with slowtiming options. If you want to randomize overlarger group sizes, increase _PING_GROUP_SZ_ in nmap.h and recompile. An alternative solution is to generate the target IP list with a list scan ( **−sL −n −oN** _filename_ ), randomize it with a Perl script, then provide the whole list to Nmap with **−iL**. 

**−−spoof−mac** _MACaddress, prefix, or vendor name_ (Spoof MACaddress) Asks Nmap to use the givenMAC address 

 for all of the rawethernet frames it sends. This option implies −−send−eth to ensure that Nmap actually sends ethernet−levelpackets. The MACgiv encan takesev eral formats. If it is simply the number 0, Nmap chooses a completely random MACaddress for the session. If the givenstring is an ev ennumber of hexdigits (with the pairs optionally separated by a colon), Nmap will use those as the MAC. If fewer than 12 hexdigits are provided, Nmap fills in the remainder of the six bytes with random values. If the argument isn't a zero or hexstring, Nmap looks through nmap−mac−prefixes to find a vendor name containing the givenstring (it is case insensitive). If a match is found, Nmap uses the vendor's OUI (three−byte prefix) and fills out the remaining three bytes randomly. Valid −−spoof−mac argument examples are Apple, 0, 01:02:03:04:05:06, deadbeefcafe, 0020F2, and Cisco. This option only affects rawpacket scans such as SYN scan or OS detection, not connection−oriented features such as version detection or the Nmap Scripting Engine. 

**−−proxies** _Comma−separated list of proxy URLs_ (Relay TCP connections through a chain of proxies) Asks Nmap to establish TCP connections with a final target through supplied chain of one or more HTTP or SOCKS4 

 proxies. Proxies can help hide the true source of a scan or evade certain firewall restrictions, but they can hamper scan performance by increasing latency. Users may need to adjust Nmap timeouts and other scan parameters accordingly. In particular,alower −−max−parallelism may help because some proxies refuse to handle as manyconcurrent connections as Nmap opens by default. 

 This option takes a list of proxies as argument, expressed as URLs in the format proto://host:port. Use commas to separate node URLs in a chain. No authentication is supported yet. Valid protocols are HTTP and SOCKS4. 

 Warning: this feature is still under development and has limitations. It is implemented within the nsock library and thus has no effect on the ping, port scanning and OS discovery phases of a scan. Only NSE and version scan benefit from this option so far—other features may disclose your true address. SSL connections are not yet supported, nor is proxy−side DNS resolution (hostnames are always resolved by Nmap). 

**−−badsum** (Send packets with bogus TCP/UDP checksums) Asks Nmap to use an invalid TCP,UDP or SCTP checksum for packets sent to target hosts. Since virtually all host IP stacks properly drop these packets, anyresponses receivedare likely coming from afirewall or IDS that didn't bother to verify the checksum. For more details on this technique, see 

---

 https://nmap.org/p60-12.html −−adler32 (Use deprecated Adler32 instead of CRC32C for SCTP checksums) Asks Nmap to use the deprecated Adler32 algorithm for calculating the SCTP checksum. If −−adler32 is not given, CRC−32C (Castagnoli) is used. RFC 2960 [13]originally defined Adler32 as checksum algorithm for SCTP; RFC 4960 [6]later redefined the SCTP checksums to use CRC−32C. Current SCTP implementations should be using CRC−32C, but in order to elicit responses from old, legacy SCTP implementations, it may be preferable to use Adler32. 

# OUTPUT 

 Anysecurity tool is only as useful as the output it generates. Complextests and algorithms are of little value if theyaren't presented in an organized and comprehensible fashion. Giventhe number of ways Nmap is used by people and other software, no single format can please everyone. So Nmap offers several formats, including the interactive mode for humans to read directly and XML for easy parsing by software. In addition to offering different output formats, Nmap provides options for controlling the verbosity of output as well as debugging messages. Output types may be sent to standard output or to named files, which Nmap can append to or clobber. Output files may also be used to resume aborted scans. Nmap makes output available in fivedifferent formats. The default is called interactive output, and it is sent to standard output (stdout). There is also normal output, which is similar to interactive except that it displays less runtime information and warnings since it is expected to be analyzed after the scan completes rather than interactively. XML output is one of the most important output types, as it can be converted to HTML, easily parsed by programs such as Nmap graphical user interfaces, or imported into databases. The tworemaining output types are the simple grepable output which includes most information for a target host on a single line, and sCRiPt KiDDi3 0utPUt for users who consider themselves |<−r4d. While interactive output is the default and has no associated command−line options, the other four format options use the same syntax. Theytakeone argument, which is the filename that results should be stored in. Multiple formats may be specified, but each format may only be specified once. For example, you may wish to save normal output for your own reviewwhile saving XML of the same scan for programmatic analysis. You might do this with the options −oX myscan.xml −oN myscan.nmap .While this chapter uses the simple names likemyscan.xml for brevity,more descriptive names are generally recommended. The names chosen are a matter of personal preference, though I use long ones that incorporate the scan date and aword or twodescribing the scan, placed in a directory named after the companyI'm scanning. While these options save results to files, Nmap still prints interactive output to stdout as usual. For example, the command nmap −oX myscan.xml target prints XML to myscan.xml and fills standard output with the same interactive results it would have printed if −oX wasn't specified at all. You can change this by passing ahyphen character as the argument to one of the format types. This causes Nmap to deactivate interactive output, and instead print results in the format you specified to the standard output stream. So the command nmap −oX − target will send only XML output to stdout. Serious errors may still be printed to the normal error stream, stderr. Unlikesome Nmap arguments, the space between the logfile option flag (such as −oX )and the filename or hyphen is mandatory. If you omit the flags and give arguments such as −oG− or −oXscan.xml ,abackwards compatibility feature of Nmap will cause the creation of normal format output files named G− and Xscan.xml respectively. All of these arguments support strftime −likeconversions in the filename. %H, %M, %S, %m, %d, %y, and %Y are all exactly the same as in strftime .%Tisthe same as %H%M%S, %R is the same as %H%M, and %D is the same as %m%d%y. A % followed by anyother character just yields that character (%% givesyou a percent symbol). So −oX 'scan−%T−%D.xml' will use an XML file with a name in the form of scan−144840−121307.xml. Nmap also offers options to control scan verbosity and to append to output files rather than clobbering them. All of these options are described below. Nmap Output Formats 

---

**−oN** _filespec_ (normal output) Requests that normal output be directed to the givenfilename. As discussed above,this differs slightly from interactive output. 

**−oX** _filespec_ (XML output) Requests that XML output be directed to the givenfilename. Nmap includes a document type definition (DTD) which allows XML parsers to validate Nmap XML output. While it is primarily intended for programmatic use, it can also help humans interpret Nmap XML output. The DTD defines the legalelements of the format, and often enumerates the attributes and values theycan take on. The latest version is always available from **https://svn.nmap.org/nmap/docs/nmap.dtd**. 

 XML offers a stable format that is easily parsed by software. Free XML parsers are available for all major computer languages, including C/C++, Perl, Python, and Java.People have evenwritten bindings for most of these languages to handle Nmap output and execution specifically. Examples are Nmap::Scanner [14]and Nmap::Parser [15]in Perl CPAN. In almost all cases that a non−trivial application interfaces with Nmap, XML is the preferred format. 

 The XML output references an XSL stylesheet which can be used to format the results as HTML. The easiest way to use this is simply to load the XML output in a web browser such as Firefox or IE. By default, this will only work on the machine you ran Nmap on (or a similarly configured one) due to the hard−coded nmap.xsl filesystem path. Use the −−webxml or −−stylesheet options to create portable XML files that render as HTML on anyweb−connected machine. 

**−oS** _filespec_ (ScRipT KIdd|3 oUTpuT) Script kiddie output is likeinteractive output, except that it is post−processed to better suit the l33t HaXXorZ who previously looked down on Nmap due to its consistent capitalization and spelling. Humor impaired people should note that this option is making fun of the script kiddies before flaming me for supposedly “helping them”. 

**−oG** _filespec_ (grepable output) This output format is covered last because it is deprecated. The XML output format is far more powerful, and is nearly as convenient for experienced users. XML is a standard for which dozens of excellent parsers are available, while grepable output is my own simple hack. XML is extensible to support newNmap features as theyare released, while I often must omit those features from grepable output for lack of a place to put them. 

 Nevertheless, grepable output is still quite popular. It is a simple format that lists each host on one line and can be trivially searched and parsed with standard Unix tools such as grep, awk, cut, sed, diff, and Perl. Even I usually use it for one−offtests done at the command line. Finding all the hosts with the SSH port open or that are running Solaris takes only a simple grep to identify the hosts, piped to an awkorcut command to print the desired fields. 

 Grepable output consists of comments (lines starting with a pound (#)) and target lines. A target line includes a combination of six labeled fields, separated by tabs and followed with a colon. The fields are Host, Ports, Protocols, Ignored State, OS, Seq Index, IP ID, and Status. 

 The most important of these fields is generally Ports, which givesdetails on each interesting port. It is acomma separated list of port entries. Each port entry represents one interesting port, and takes the form of sevenslash (/) separated subfields. Those subfields are: Port number,State, Protocol, Owner, Service, SunRPC info, and Version info. 

 As with XML output, this man page does not allowfor documenting the entire format. A more detailed look at the Nmap grepable output format is available from https://nmap.org/book/output-formats-grepable-output.html. 

**−oA** _basename_ (Output to all formats) As a convenience, you may specify **−oA** _basename_ to store scan results in normal, XML, and grepable 

---

 formats at once. Theyare stored in basename .nmap, basename .xml, and basename .gnmap, respectively. As with most programs, you can prefix the filenames with a directory path, such as ̃/nmaplogs/foocorp/ on Unix or c:\hacking\sco on Windows. 

**Verbosity and debugging options** 

**−v** (Increase verbosity level), **−v** _level_ (Set verbosity level) Increases the verbosity level, causing Nmap to print more information about the scan in progress. Open ports are shown as theyare found and completion time estimates are provided when Nmap thinks a scan will takemore than a fewminutes. Use it twice or more for evengreater verbosity: **−vv** , or give a verbosity leveldirectly,for example **−v3**. 

 Most changes only affect interactive output, and some also affect normal and script kiddie output. The other output types are meant to be processed by machines, so Nmap can give substantial detail by default in those formats without fatiguing a human user. However, there are a fewchanges in other modes where output size can be reduced substantially by omitting some detail. For example, a comment line in the grepable output that provides a list of all ports scanned is only printed in verbose mode because it can be quite long. 

**−d** (Increase debugging level), **−d** _level_ (Set debugging level) When evenverbose mode doesn't provide sufficient data for you, debugging is available to flood you with much more! As with the verbosity option ( **−v** ), debugging is enabled with a command−line flag ( **−d** )and the debug levelcan be increased by specifying it multiple times, as in **−dd** ,orbysetting a leveldirectly. For example, **−d9** sets levelnine. That is the highest effective lev eland will produce thousands of lines unless you run a very simple scan with very fewports and targets. 

 Debugging output is useful when a bug is suspected in Nmap, or if you are simply confused as to what Nmap is doing and why. As this feature is mostly intended for developers, debug lines aren't always self−explanatory. You may get something like: Timeout vals: srtt: −1 rttvar: −1 to: 1000000 delta 14987 ==> srtt: 14987 rttvar: 14987 to: 100000. If you don't understand a line, your only recourses are to ignore it, look it up in the source code, or request help from the development list (nmap−dev). Some lines are self explanatory,but the messages become more obscure as the debug levelis increased. 

**−−reason** (Host and port state reasons) Shows the reason each port is set to a specific state and the reason each host is up or down. This option displays the type of the packet that determined a port or hosts state. For example, A RST packet from a closed port or an echo reply from an alive host. The information Nmap can provide is determined by the type of scan or ping. The SYN scan and SYN ping ( **−sS** and **−PS** )are very detailed, but the TCP connect scan ( **−sT** )islimited by the implementation of the **connect** system call. This feature is automatically enabled by the debug option ( **−d** )and the results are stored in XML log files evenifthis option is not specified. 

**−−stats−every** _time_ (Print periodic timing stats) Periodically prints a timing status message after each interval of _time_ .The time is a specification of the kind described in the section called “TIMING AND PERFORMANCE”; so for example, use **−−stats−every 10s** to get a status update every 10 seconds. Updates are printed to interactive output (the screen) and XML output. 

**−−packet−trace** (Trace packets and data sent and received) Causes Nmap to print a summary of every packet sent or received. This is often used for debugging, butisalso a valuable way for newusers to understand exactly what Nmap is doing under the covers. To avoid printing thousands of lines, you may want to specify a limited number of ports to scan, such as **−p20−30** .Ifyou only care about the goings on of the version detection subsystem, use **−−version−trace** instead. If you only care about script tracing, specify **−−script−trace** .With **−−packet−trace** ,you get all of the above. 

**−−open** (Showonly open (or possibly open) ports) Sometimes you only care about ports you can actually connect to (open ones), and don't want results 

---

 cluttered with closed, filtered, and closed|filtered ports. Output customization is normally done after the scan using tools such as grep, awk, and Perl, but this feature was added due to overwhelming requests. Specify −−open to only see hosts with at least one open, open|filtered, or unfiltered port, and only see ports in those states. These three states are treated just as theynormally are, which means that open|filtered and unfiltered may be condensed into counts if there are an overwhelming number of them. 

 Beginning with Nmap 7.40, the −−open option implies 

 −−defeat−rst−ratelimit ,because that option only affects closed and filtered ports, which are hidden by −−open. 

**−−iflist** (List interfaces and routes) Prints the interface list and system routes as detected by Nmap and quits. This is useful for debugging routing problems or device mischaracterization (such as Nmap treating a PPP connection as ethernet). 

**Miscellaneous output options** 

**−−append−output** (Append to rather than clobber output files) When you specify a filename to an output format flag such as **−oX** or **−oN** ,that file is overwritten by default. If you prefer to keep the existing content of the file and append the newresults, specify the **−−append−output** option. All output filenames specified in that Nmap execution will then be appended to rather than clobbered. This doesn't work well for XML ( **−oX** )scan data as the resultant file generally won't parse properly until you fix it up by hand. 

**−−resume** _filename_ (Resume aborted scan) Some extensive Nmap runs takeavery long time—on the order of days. Such scans don't always run to completion. Restrictions may prevent Nmap from being run during working hours, the network could go down, the machine Nmap is running on might suffer a planned or unplanned reboot, or Nmap itself could crash. The administrator running Nmap could cancel it for anyother reason as well, by pressing ctrl−C. Restarting the whole scan from the beginning may be undesirable. Fortunately,ifscan output files were kept, the user can ask Nmap to resume scanning with the target it was working on when execution ceased. Simply specify the **−−resume** option and pass the output file as its argument. No other arguments are permitted, as Nmap parses the output file to use the same ones specified previously. Simply call Nmap as **nmap −−resume** _logfilename_ .Nmap will append newresults to the data files specified in the previous execution. Scans can be resumed from anyofthe 3 major output formats: Normal, Grepable, or XML 

**−−stylesheet** _path or URL_ (Set XSL stylesheet to transform XML output) Nmap ships with an XSL stylesheet named nmap.xsl for viewing or translating XML output to HTML. The XML output includes an xml−stylesheet directive which points to nmap.xml where it was initially installed by Nmap. Run the XML file through an XSLTprocessor such as **xsltproc** [16]to produce an HTML file. Directly opening the XML file in a browser no longer works well because modern browsers limit the locations a stylesheet may be loaded from. If you wish to use a different stylesheet, specify it as the argument to **−−stylesheet** .You must pass the full pathname or URL. One common invocation is **−−stylesheet https://nmap.org/svn/docs/nmap.xsl** .This tells an XSLTprocessor to load the latest version of the stylesheet from Nmap.Org. The **−−webxml** option does the same thing with less typing and memorization. Loading the XSL from Nmap.Orgmakes it easier to viewresults on a machine that doesn't have Nmap (and thus nmap.xsl) installed. So the URL is often more useful, but the local filesystem location of nmap.xsl is used by default for privacy reasons. 

**−−webxml** (Load stylesheet from Nmap.Org) This is a convenience option, nothing more than an alias for **−−stylesheet https://nmap.org/svn/docs/nmap.xsl**. 

**−−no−stylesheet** (Omit XSL stylesheet declaration from XML) Specify this option to prevent Nmap from associating anyXSL stylesheet with its XML output. The xml−stylesheet directive isomitted. 

---

# MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS 

 This section describes some important (and not−so−important) options that don't really fit anywhere else. −6 (Enable IPv6 scanning) Nmap has IPv6 support for its most popular features. Ping scanning, port scanning, version detection, and the Nmap Scripting Engine all support IPv6. The command syntax is the same as usual except that you also add the −6 option. Of course, you must use IPv6 syntax if you specify an address rather than ahostname. An address might look like3ffe:7501:4819:2000:210:f3ff:fe03:14d0, so hostnames are recommended. The output looks the same as usual, with the IPv6 address on the “interesting ports” line being the only IPv6 giveaw ay. 

 While IPv6 hasn't exactly taken the world by storm, it gets significant use in some (usually Asian) countries and most modern operating systems support it. Touse Nmap with IPv6, both the source and target of your scan must be configured for IPv6. If your ISP (likemost of them) does not allocate IPv6 addresses to you, free tunnel brokers are widely available and work fine with Nmap. I use the free IPv6 tunnel broker service at http://www.tunnelbroker.net .Other tunnel brokers are listed at Wikipedia [17].6to4 tunnels are another popular,free approach. 

 On Windows, raw−socket IPv6 scans are supported only on ethernet devices (not tunnels), and only on Windows Vista and later. Use the −−unprivileged option in other situations. −A (Aggressive scan options) This option enables additional advanced and aggressive options. Presently this enables OS detection ( −O ), version scanning ( −sV ), script scanning ( −sC )and traceroute ( −−traceroute ). Morefeatures may be added in the future. The point is to enable a comprehensive set of scan options without people having to remember a large set of flags. However, because script scanning with the default set is considered intrusive,you should not use −A against target networks without permission. This option only enables features, and not timing options (such as −T4 )orverbosity options ( −v )that you might want as well. Options which require privileges (e.g. root access) such as OS detection and traceroute will only be enabled if those privileges are available. −−datadir directoryname (Specify custom Nmap data file location) Nmap obtains some special data at runtime in files named nmap−service−probes, nmap−services, nmap−protocols, nmap−rpc, nmap−mac−prefixes, and nmap−os−db. If the location of anyofthese files has been specified (using the −−servicedb or −−versiondb options), that location is used for that file. After that, Nmap searches these files in the directory specified with the −−datadir option (if any). Anyfiles not found there, are searched for in the directory specified by the NMAPDIR environment variable. Next comes ̃/.nmap for real and effective UIDs; or on Windows, HOME \AppData\Roaming\nmap (where HOME is the user's home directory,likeC:\Users\user). This is followed by the location of the nmap executable and the same location with ../share/nmap appended. Then a compiled−in location such as /usr/local/share/nmap or /usr/share/nmap. −−servicedb services file (Specify custom services file) Asks Nmap to use the specified services file rather than the nmap−services data file that comes with Nmap. Using this option also causes a fast scan ( −F )tobeused. See the description for −−datadir for more information on Nmap's data files. −−versiondb service probes file (Specify custom service probes file) Asks Nmap to use the specified service probes file rather than the nmap−service−probes data file that comes with Nmap. See the description for −−datadir for more information on Nmap's data files. −−send−eth (Use rawethernet sending) Asks Nmap to send packets at the rawethernet (data link) layer rather than the higher IP (network) layer. By default, Nmap chooses the one which is generally best for the platform it is running on. Raw sockets (IP layer) are generally most efficient for Unix machines, while ethernet frames are required for Windows operation since Microsoft disabled rawsocket support. Nmap still uses rawIPpackets on Unix despite this option when there is no other choice (such as non−ethernet connections). −−send−ip (Send at rawIPlev el) 

---

 Asks Nmap to send packets via rawIPsockets rather than sending lower levelethernet frames. It is the complement to the −−send−eth option discussed previously. −−privileged (Assume that the user is fully privileged) Tells Nmap to simply assume that it is privileged enough to perform rawsocket sends, packet sniffing, and similar operations that usually require root privileges on Unix systems. By default Nmap quits if such operations are requested but geteuid is not zero. −−privileged is useful with Linux kernel capabilities and similar systems that may be configured to allowunprivileged users to perform raw−packet scans. Be sure to provide this option flag before anyflags for options that require privileges (SYN scan, OS detection, etc.). The NMAP_PRIVILEGED environment variable may be set as an equivalent alternative to −−privileged. −−unprivileged (Assume that the user lacks rawsocket privileges) This option is the opposite of −−privileged .Ittells Nmap to treat the user as lacking network raw socket and sniffing privileges. This is useful for testing, debugging, or when the rawnetwork functionality of your operating system is somehowbroken. The NMAP_UNPRIVILEGED environment variable may be set as an equivalent alternative to −−unprivileged. −−release−memory (Release memory before quitting) This option is only useful for memory−leak debugging. It causes Nmap to release allocated memory just before it quits so that actual memory leaks are easier to spot. Normally Nmap skips this as the OS does this anyway upon process termination. −V ; −−version (Print version number) Prints the Nmap version number and exits. −h ; −−help (Print help summary page) Prints a short help screen with the most common command flags. Running Nmap without any arguments does the same thing. 

# RUNTIME INTERACTION 

 During the execution of Nmap, all key presses are captured. This allows you to interact with the program without aborting and restarting it. Certain special keyswill change options, while anyother keyswill print out a status message telling you about the scan. The convention is that lowercase lettersincrease the amount of printing, and uppercase lettersdecrease the printing. You may also press ‘? ’for help. v / V Increase / decrease the verbosity level d / D Increase / decrease the debugging Level p / P Turn on / offpacket tracing ? Print a runtime interaction help screen Anything else Print out a status message likethis: 

 Stats: 0:00:07 elapsed; 20 hosts completed (1 up), 1 undergoing Service Scan Service scan Timing: About 33.33% done; ETC: 20:57 (0:00:12 remaining) 

# EXAMPLES 

 Here are some Nmap usage examples, from the simple and routine to a little more complexand esoteric. Some actual IP addresses and domain names are used to makethings more concrete. In their place you should substitute addresses/names from your own network .While I don't think port scanning other networks is or should be illegal, some network administrators don't appreciate unsolicited scanning of their networks and may complain. Getting permission first is the best approach. Fortesting purposes, you have permission to scan the host scanme.nmap.org. Thispermission only 

---

 includes scanning via Nmap and not testing exploits or denial of service attacks. Toconservebandwidth, please do not initiate more than a dozen scans against that host per day. If this free scanning target service is abused, it will be taken down and Nmap will report Failed to resolvegiv enhostname/IP: scanme.nmap.org. These permissions also apply to the hosts scanme2.nmap.org, scanme3.nmap.org, and so on, though those hosts do not currently exist. nmap −v scanme.nmap.org This option scans all reserved TCP ports on the machine scanme.nmap.org.The −v option enables verbose mode. nmap −sS −O scanme.nmap.org/24 

 Launches a stealth SYN scan against each machine that is up out of the 256 IPs on the /24 sized network where Scanme resides. It also tries to determine what operating system is running on each host that is up and running. This requires root privileges because of the SYN scan and OS detection. nmap −sV −p 22,53,110,143,4564 198.116.0−255.1−127 Launches host enumeration and a TCP scan at the first half of each of the 255 possible eight−bit subnets in the 198.116.0.0/16 address space. This tests whether the systems run SSH, DNS, POP3, or IMAP on their standard ports, or anything on port 4564. For anyofthese ports found open, version detection is used to determine what application is running. nmap −v −iR 100000 −Pn −p 80 

 Asks Nmap to choose 100,000 hosts at random and scan them for web servers (port 80). Host enumeration is disabled with −Pn since first sending a couple probes to determine whether a host is up is wasteful when you are only probing one port on each target host anyway. nmap −Pn −p80 −oX logs/pb−port80scan.xml −oG logs/pb−port80scan.gnmap 216.163.128.20/20 

 This scans 4096 IPs for anyweb servers (without pinging them) and savesthe output in grepable and XML formats. 

# NMAP BOOK 

 While this reference guide details all material Nmap options, it can't fully demonstrate howtoapply those features to quickly solvereal−world tasks. For that, we released Nmap Network Scanning: The Official Nmap Project Guide to Network Discovery and Security Scanning.Topics include subverting firewalls and intrusion detection systems, optimizing Nmap performance, and automating common networking tasks with the Nmap Scripting Engine. Hints and instructions are provided for common Nmap tasks such as taking network inventory,penetration testing, detecting rogue wireless access points, and quashing network worm outbreaks. Examples and diagrams showactual communication on the wire. More than half of the book is available free online. See https://nmap.org/book for more information. 

# BUGS 

 Likeits author,Nmap isn't perfect. But you can help makeitbetter by sending bug reports or evenwriting patches. If Nmap doesn't behave the way you expect, first upgrade to the latest version available from https://nmap.org .Ifthe problem persists, do some research to determine whether it has already been discovered and addressed. Try searching for the problem or error message on Google since that aggregates so manyforums. If nothing comes of this, create an Issue on our tracker ( http://issues.nmap.org )and/or mail a bug report to <dev@nmap.org>. If you subscribe to the nmap−devlist before posting, your message will bypass moderation and get through more quickly. Subscribe at https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/dev .Please include everything you have learned about the problem, as well as what version of Nmap you are using and what operating system version it is running on. Other suggestions for improving Nmap may be sent to the Nmap devmailing list as well. If you are able to write a patch improving Nmap or fixing a bug, that is evenbetter! Instructions for submitting patches or git pull requests are available from 

---

 https://github.com/nmap/nmap/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md Particularly sensitive issues such as a security reports may be sent directly to Nmap's author Fyodor directly at <fyodor@nmap.org>. All other reports and comments should use the devlist or issue tracker instead because more people read, follow, and respond to those. 

# AUTHORS 

 Gordon “Fyodor” Lyon <fyodor@nmap.org> wrote and released Nmap in 1997. Since then, hundreds of people have made valuable contributions, as detailed in the CHANGELOG file distributed with Nmap and also available from https://nmap.org/changelog.html .David Fifield and Daniel Miller deservespecial recognition for their enormous multi−year contributions! 

# LEGAL NOTICES 

 Nmap Copyright and Licensing The Nmap Security Scanner is (C) 1996–2020 Insecure.Com LLC ("The Nmap Project"). Nmap is also a registered trademark of the Nmap Project. It is published under the Nmap Public Source License [18].This generally allows end users to download and use Nmap for free. It doesn't not allowNmap to be used and redistributed within commercial software or hardware products (including appliances, virtual machines, and traditional applications). Wefund the project by selling a special Nmap OEM Edition for this purpose, as described at https://nmap.org/oem .Hundreds of large and small software vendors have already purchased OEM licenses to embed Nmap technology such as host discovery,port scanning, OS detection, version detection, and the Nmap Scripting Engine within their products. The Nmap Project has permission to redistribute Npcap, a packet capturing driverand library for the Microsoft Windows platform. Npcap is a separate work with it's own license rather than this Nmap license. Since the Npcap license does not permit redistribution without special permission, our Nmap Windows binary packages which contain Npcap may not be redistributed without special permission. Even though the NPSL is based on GPLv2, it contains different provisions and is not directly compatible. It is incompatible with some other open source licenses as well. In some cases we can relicense portions of Nmap or grant special permissions to use it in other open source software. Please contact fyodor@nmap.org with anysuch requests. Similarly,wedon't incorporate incompatible open source software into Nmap without special permission from the copyright holders. If you have receivedawritten license agreement or contract for Nmap stating terms other than these, you may choose to use and redistribute Nmap under those terms instead. Creative Commons License for this Nmap Guide This Nmap Reference Guide is (C) 2005–2020 Insecure.Com LLC. It is hereby placed under version 3.0 of the Creative Commons Attribution License [19].This allows you redistribute and modify the work as you desire, as long as you credit the original source. Alternatively,you may choose to treat this document as falling under the same license as Nmap itself (discussed previously). Source Code Availability and Community Contributions Source is provided to this software because we believe users have a right to knowexactly what a program is going to do before theyrun it. This also allows you to audit the software for security holes. Source code also allows you to port Nmap to newplatforms, fix bugs, and add newfeatures. You are highly encouraged to submit your changes as Github Pull Requests (PR) or send them to <dev@nmap.org> for possible incorporation into the main distribution. By submitting such changes, it is assumed that you are offering the Nmap Project the unlimited, non−exclusive right to reuse, modify,and relicense the code. This is important because the inability to relicense code has caused devastating problems for other Free Software projects (such as KDE and NASM). Wealso sell commercial licenses to Nmap OEM [20].Ifyou wish to specify special license conditions of your contributions, just say so when you send them. No Warranty This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;without ev enthe implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. It should also be noted that Nmap has occasionally been known to crash poorly written applications, TCP/IP stacks, and evenoperating systems. While this is extremely rare, it is important to keep in mind. 

---

 Nmap should never be run against mission critical systems unless you are prepared to suffer downtime. We acknowledge here that Nmap may crash your systems or networks and we disclaim all liability for any damage or problems Nmap could cause. Inappropriate Usage Because of the slight risk of crashes and because a fewblack hats liketouse Nmap for reconnaissance prior to attacking systems, there are administrators who become upset and may complain when their system is scanned. Thus, it is often advisable to request permission before doing evenalight scan of a network. Nmap should neverbeinstalled with special privileges (e.g. suid root). That would open up a major security vulnerability as other users on the system (or attackers) could use it for privilege escalation. Nmap is not designed, manufactured, or intended for use in hazardous environments requiring fail− safe performance where the failure of the software could lead directly to death, personal injury,orsignificant physical or environmental damage. Third−Party Softwareand Funding Notices This product includes software developed by the Apache SoftwareFoundation [21].Amodified version of the Libpcap portable packet capturelibrary [22]is distributed along with Nmap. The Windows version of Nmap utilizes the Libpcap−derived Ncap library [23]instead. Regular expression support is provided by the PCRE library [24],which is open−source software, written by Philip Hazel. Certain rawnetworking functions use the Libdnet [25]networking library,which was written by Dug Song.Amodified version is distributed with Nmap. Nmap can optionally link with the OpenSSL cryptographytoolkit [26]for SSL version detection support. The Nmap Scripting Engine uses an embedded version of the Lua programming language [27].The Liblinear linear classification library [28]is used for our IPv6 OS detection machine learning techniques [29]. 

 All of the third−party software described in this paragraph is freely redistributable under BSD−style software licenses. Binary packages for Windows and Mac OS X include support libraries necessary to run Zenmap and Ndiff with Python and PyGTK. (Unix platforms commonly makethese libraries easy to install, so theyare not part of the packages.) A listing of these support libraries and their licenses is included in the LICENSES files. This software was supported in part through the Google Summer of Code [30]and the DARPACINDER program [31](DARPA−BAA−10−84). United States Export Control Nmap only uses encryption when compiled with the optional OpenSSL support and linked with OpenSSL. When compiled without OpenSSL support, the Nmap Project believesthat Nmap is not subject to U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) [32]export control. As such, there is no applicable ECCN (export control classification number) and exportation does not require anyspecial license, permit, or other governmental authorization. When compiled with OpenSSL support or distributed as source code, the Nmap Project believesthat Nmap falls under U.S. ECCN 5D002 [33](“Information Security Software”). Wedistribute Nmap under the TSU exception for publicly available encryption software defined in EAR 740.13(e) [34]. 

# NOTES 

1. Nmap Network Scanning: The Official Nmap Project Guide to Network Discovery and Security     Scanning     https://nmap.org/book/ 

2. RFC 1122     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1122.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1122.txt) 

3. RFC 792     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc792.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc792.txt) 

4. RFC 950     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc950.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc950.txt) 

---

## 5. UDP 

 http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc768.txt 

6. SCTP     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4960.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4960.txt) 

7. TCP RFC     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc793.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc793.txt) 

8. RFC 959     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc959.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc959.txt) 

9. RFC 1323     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1323.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1323.txt) 

10. Lua programming language     [http://lua.org](http://lua.org) 

11. precedence     [http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/manual.html#2.5.3](http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/manual.html#2.5.3) 

12. IP protocol     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc791.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc791.txt) 

13. RFC 2960     [http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2960.txt](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2960.txt) 

14. Nmap::Scanner     [http://sourceforge.net/projects/nmap-scanner/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/nmap-scanner/) 

15. Nmap::Parser     [http://nmapparser.wordpress.com/](http://nmapparser.wordpress.com/) 

16. xsltproc     [http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/](http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/) 

17. listed at Wikipedia     [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_IPv6_tunnel_brokers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_IPv6_tunnel_brokers) 

18. Nmap Public Source License     https://nmap.org/npsl 

19. Creative Commons Attribution License     [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) 

20. Nmap OEM     https://nmap.org/oem 

21. Apache Software Foundation     https://www.apache.org 

22. Libpcap portable packet capture library     https://www.tcpdump.org 

23. Ncap library     https://npcap.org 

24. PCRE library     https://pcre.org 

25. Libdnet     [http://libdnet.sourceforge.net](http://libdnet.sourceforge.net) 

26. OpenSSL cryptographytoolkit     https://openssl.org 

27. Lua programming language     https://lua.org 

---

28. Liblinear linear classification library     https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/ ̃cjlin/liblinear/ 

29. IPv6 OS detection machine learning techniques     https://nmap.org/book/osdetect-guess.html#osdetect-guess-ipv6 

30. Google Summer of Code     https://nmap.org/soc/ 

31. DARPACINDER program     https://www.fbo.gov/index?s=opportunity&mode=form&id=585e02a51f77af5cb3c9e06b9cc82c48&tab=core&_cview=1 

32. Export Administration Regulations (EAR)     https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/regulations/export-administration-regulations-ear 

33. 5D002     https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/documents/regulations-docs/federal-register-notices/federal-register-2014/951-ccl5-pt2/file 

34. EAR 740.13(e)     https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/documents/regulations-docs/2341-740-2/file 


```